---
title: Request and Response Configuration
date: 2020-01-05 10:56:02
permalink: /pages/f5b627bfebba87fc
author: HuangYi
categories:
  - Building axios from Scratch with TypeScript
  - ts-axios Configuration Implementation
tags:
  - TypeScript
---
# Request and Response Configuration

## Requirement Analysis

The official axios library adds two fields, `transformRequest` and `transformResponse`, to the default configuration. Their values are either an array or a function.

`transformRequest` allows you to modify the request data before it is sent to the server. This only applies to the request methods `put`, `post`, and `patch`. If the value is an array, the last function in the array must return a string or a value of type `FormData`, `URLSearchParams`, `Blob`, etc., to be used as the argument for the `xhr.send` method. Additionally, the `headers` object can be modified during the `transform` process.

`transformResponse` allows you to modify the response data before it is passed to `then` or `catch`.

When the value is an array, each function in the array is a transformation function. The functions in the array execute in sequence like a pipeline, with the output of the former serving as the input to the latter.

For example:

```typescript
axios({
  transformRequest: [(function(data) {
    return qs.stringify(data)
  }), ...axios.defaults.transformRequest],
  transformResponse: [axios.defaults.transformResponse, function(data) {
    if (typeof data === 'object') {
      data.b = 2
    }
    return data
  }],
  url: '/config/post',
  method: 'post',
  data: {
    a: 1
  }
})
```

## Modifying the Default Configuration

First, modify the type definition of `AxiosRequestConfig` by adding two optional properties, `transformRequest` and `transformResponse`.

`types/index.ts`:

```typescript
export interface AxiosRequestConfig {
  // ...
  transformRequest?: AxiosTransformer | AxiosTransformer[]
  transformResponse?: AxiosTransformer | AxiosTransformer[]
}

export interface AxiosTransformer {
  (data: any, headers?: any): any
}
```

Next, modify the default configuration as follows:

`defaults.ts`:

```typescript
import { processHeaders } from './helpers/headers'
import { transformRequest, transformResponse } from './helpers/data'

const defaults: AxiosRequestConfig = {
  // ...
  transformRequest: [
    function(data: any, headers: any): any {
      processHeaders(headers, data)
      return transformRequest(data)
    }
  ],

  transformResponse: [
    function(data: any): any {
      return transformResponse(data)
    }
  ]
}
```

We have moved the logic that previously handled request data and response data into the default configuration, that is, the default processing logic.

## Refactoring the transform Logic

Next, we need to refactor the logic we previously wrote for handling request data and response data. Since we may write multiple transformation functions, let's first define a `transform` function to handle the invocation logic of these transformation functions.

`core/transform.ts`

```typescript
import { AxiosTransformer } from '../types'

export default function transform(
  data: any,
  headers: any,
  fns?: AxiosTransformer | AxiosTransformer[]
): any {
  if (!fns) {
    return data
  }
  if (!Array.isArray(fns)) {
    fns = [fns]
  }
  fns.forEach(fn => {
    data = fn(data, headers)
  })
  return data
}
```

The `transform` function receives 3 parameters: `data`, `headers`, and `fns`, where `fns` represents one or more transformation functions. The internal logic is very simple: it iterates over `fns`, executes these transformation functions, and passes `data` and `headers` as arguments. The `data` returned by each transformation function is passed as the `data` argument to the next transformation function.

Next, modify the logic for handling request data and response data.

`dispatchRequest.ts`:

```typescript

import transform from './transform'

function processConfig(config: AxiosRequestConfig): void {
  config.url = transformURL(config)
  config.data = transform(config.data, config.headers, config.transformRequest)
  config.headers = flattenHeaders(config.headers, config.method!)
}

function transformResponseData(res: AxiosResponse): AxiosResponse {
  res.data = transform(res.data, res.headers, res.config.transformResponse)
  return res
}
```

We changed the handling of request data and response data to use the `transform` function, passing in the configuration's `transformRequest` and `transformResponse` respectively.

## Writing the demo

```typescript
axios({
  transformRequest: [(function(data) {
    return qs.stringify(data)
  }), ...(axios.defaults.transformRequest as AxiosTransformer[])],
  transformResponse: [...(axios.defaults.transformResponse as AxiosTransformer[]), function(data) {
    if (typeof data === 'object') {
      data.b = 2
    }
    return data
  }],
  url: '/config/post',
  method: 'post',
  data: {
    a: 1
  }
}).then((res) => {
  console.log(res.data)
})
```

We modified `transformRequest` so that, before executing its default `transformRequest`, we first apply a layer of transformation to the incoming `data` using the `qs.stringify` library. We also modified `transformResponse` so that, after executing the default `transformResponse`, it adds `data.b = 2` to the response's `data` object.

Because we previously implemented configuration merging, and the `transformRequest` and `transformResponse` we pass in follow the default merge strategy, they will override the default values.

At this point, we have implemented request and response configuration. So far, our axios has been a singleton: once we modify axios's default configuration, it affects all requests. The official site provides an `axios.create` factory method that allows us to create a new `axios` instance, while also allowing us to pass in new configuration that is merged with the default configuration and used as the new default configuration. In the next lesson, we will implement this feature.
