---
title: Interfaces
date: 2020-01-05 10:17:47
permalink: /pages/54ea89b497ec3bb3
author: HuangYi
categories:
  - Building axios from Scratch with TypeScript
  - Common TypeScript Syntax
tags:
  - TypeScript
---
# Interfaces

One of TypeScript's core principles is that type checking focuses on the shape that values have. This is sometimes called "duck typing" or "structural subtyping." In TypeScript, interfaces serve the role of naming these types and defining contracts within your code or with third-party code.

## A First Look at Interfaces

Let's observe how interfaces work with a simple example:

```typescript
function printLabel(labelledObj: { label: string }) {
  console.log(labelledObj.label)
}

let myObj = { size: 10, label: 'Size 10 Object' }
printLabel(myObj)
```

The type checker examines the call to `printLabel`. `printLabel` has a single parameter that requires the passed object to have a property called `label` of type `string`. Note that the object we pass in may actually have more properties, but the compiler only checks that at least the required ones are present and their types match. However, there are cases where TypeScript is not so lenient, which we'll briefly discuss.

Let's rewrite the above example, this time using an interface to describe the requirement of having a `label` property of type `string`:

```typescript
interface LabelledValue {
  label: string
}

function printLabel(labelledObj: LabelledValue) {
  console.log(labelledObj.label)
}

let myObj = {size: 10, label: 'Size 10 Object'}
printLabel(myObj)
```

The `LabelledValue` interface serves as a name describing the structure in the example above. It represents an object that has a `label` property of type `string`. Note that unlike in some other languages, we can't say that the object passed to `printLabel` implements this interface. We only care about the shape of the value. As long as the passed object meets the requirements mentioned above, it is allowed.

One more thing worth mentioning is that the type checker doesn't check property order -- only that the corresponding properties exist and their types are correct.

## Optional Properties

Not all properties of an interface are required. Some exist only under certain conditions, or may not exist at all. For example, when passing an object to a function where only some properties are assigned:

```typescript
interface Square {
  color: string,
  area: number
}

interface SquareConfig {
  color?: string
  width?: number
}

function createSquare (config: SquareConfig): Square {
  let newSquare = {color: 'white', area: 100}
  if (config.color) {
    newSquare.color = config.color
  }
  if (config.width) {
    newSquare.area = config.width * config.width
  }
  return newSquare
}

let mySquare = createSquare({color: 'black'})
```

Interfaces with optional properties are similar to regular interface definitions, except a `?` is appended after the property name.

One advantage of optional properties is that you can pre-define properties that might exist, and another is that you can catch errors when referencing properties that don't exist. For example, if we intentionally misspell the `color` property inside `createSquare`, we'll get an error:

```typescript
interface Square {
  color: string,
  area: number
}

interface SquareConfig {
   color?: string;
   width?: number;
}

function createSquare(config: SquareConfig): Square {
   let newSquare = {color: 'white', area: 100}
   if (config.clor) {
     // Error: Property 'clor' does not exist on type 'SquareConfig'
     newSquare.color = config.clor
   }
   if (config.width) {
     newSquare.area = config.width * config.width
   }
   return newSquare
 }

 let mySquare = createSquare({color: 'black'})
```

## Readonly Properties

Some object properties can only be modified when the object is first created. You can specify read-only properties by putting `readonly` before the property name:

```typescript
interface Point {
  readonly x: number
  readonly y: number
}
```

You can construct a `Point` by assigning an object literal. After assignment, `x` and `y` can never be changed.

```typescript
let p1: Point = { x: 10, y: 20 }
p1.x = 5 // error!
```

TypeScript provides `ReadonlyArray<T>`, which is similar to `Array<T>` but with all mutating methods removed, ensuring arrays can never be modified after creation:

```typescript
let a: number[] = [1, 2, 3, 4]
let ro: ReadonlyArray<number> = a
ro[0] = 12 // error!
ro.push(5) // error!
ro.length = 100 // error!
a = ro // error!
```

On the last line above, you can see that even assigning the entire `ReadonlyArray` back to a regular array is not allowed. But you can override it with a type assertion:

```typescript
a = ro as number[]
```

### readonly vs const

The simplest way to remember whether to use `readonly` or `const` is to ask whether you're using it as a variable or a property. Use `const` for variables and `readonly` for properties.

## Excess Property Checks

In our first example, we used interfaces, and TypeScript let us pass `{ size: number; label: string; }` to a function expecting only `{ label: string; }`, and we already learned about optional properties.

However, naively combining the two can trip you up, just as it would in JavaScript. For example, using the `createSquare` example:

```typescript
interface SquareConfig {
    color?: string;
    width?: number;
}

function createSquare (config: SquareConfig): { color: string; area: number } {
  let newSquare = {color: 'white', area: 100}
  if (config.color) {
    newSquare.color = config.color
  }
  if (config.width) {
    newSquare.area = config.width * config.width
  }
  return newSquare
}


let mySquare = createSquare({ colour: 'red', width: 100 })
```

Notice that the argument to `createSquare` is spelled `colour` instead of `color`. In JavaScript, this would silently fail.

You might argue that this program is correctly typed because the `width` property is compatible, there's no `color` property, and the extra `colour` property is insignificant.

However, TypeScript considers this code potentially buggy. Object literals get special treatment and undergo excess property checking when assigning them to variables or passing them as arguments. If an object literal has any properties that the "target type" doesn't have, you'll get an error.

```typescript
// error: 'colour' does not exist on type 'SquareConfig'
let mySquare = createSquare({ colour: 'red', width: 100 })
```

Getting around these checks is straightforward. The simplest method is to use a type assertion:

```typescript
let mySquare = createSquare({ width: 100, opacity: 0.5 } as SquareConfig)
```

However, the best approach is to add a string index signature, provided you're sure the object may have extra properties used for special purposes. If `SquareConfig` can have `color` and `width` properties with the types defined above, but can also have any number of other properties, we can define it as:

```typescript
interface SquareConfig {
  color?: string
  width?: number
  [propName: string]: any
}
```

We'll discuss index signatures later, but here we're saying that `SquareConfig` can have any number of properties, and as long as they aren't `color` or `width`, their types don't matter.

There's one last way to bypass these checks, which may surprise you -- assign the object to another variable: since `squareOptions` won't undergo excess property checking, the compiler won't report an error.

```typescript
let squareOptions = { colour: 'red', width: 100 }
let mySquare = createSquare(squareOptions)
```

Keep in mind that in simple code like the above, you probably shouldn't try to bypass these checks. For complex object literals with methods and internal state, you might need these techniques, but most excess property check errors are real bugs. That said, if you encounter an excess property check error, you should review your type declarations. Here, if passing either `color` or `colour` to `createSquare` is supported, you should update the `SquareConfig` definition to reflect that.


## Function Types

Interfaces can describe the wide variety of shapes that JavaScript objects can take. In addition to describing objects with properties, interfaces can also describe function types.

To describe a function type with an interface, we define a call signature. It's like a function definition with only the parameter list and return type. Each parameter in the parameter list requires both a name and a type.

```typescript
interface SearchFunc {
  (source: string, subString: string): boolean
}
```

Once defined, we can use this function type interface like other interfaces. The example below shows how to create a function type variable and assign a function of the same type to it.

```typescript
let mySearch: SearchFunc
mySearch = function(source: string, subString: string): boolean {
  let result = source.search(subString);
  return result > -1
}
```

For function type checking, the parameter names don't need to match those defined in the interface. For example, we could rewrite the above example as:

```typescript
let mySearch: SearchFunc
mySearch = function(src: string, sub: string): boolean {
  let result = src.search(sub);
  return result > -1
}
```

Function parameters are checked one at a time, with each parameter at a corresponding position requiring compatible types. If you don't want to specify types, TypeScript's type system will infer the parameter types because the function is directly assigned to a `SearchFunc` type variable. The function's return type is inferred from its return value (in this case, `false` and `true`). If the function returned a number or string, the type checker would warn that the return type doesn't match the definition in the `SearchFunc` interface.

```typescript
let mySearch: SearchFunc
mySearch = function(src, sub) {
  let result = src.search(sub)
  return result > -1
}
```

## Indexable Types

Similar to using interfaces to describe function types, we can also describe types that can be "indexed into" like `a[10]` or `ageMap['daniel']`. Indexable types have an index signature that describes the types used to index into the object, along with the corresponding return types. Let's look at an example:

```typescript
interface StringArray {
  [index: number]: string
}

let myArray: StringArray
myArray = ['Bob', 'Fred']

let myStr: string = myArray[0]
```

Above, we defined a `StringArray` interface with an index signature. This index signature states that when `StringArray` is indexed with a `number`, it returns a `string`.

TypeScript supports two types of index signatures: string and number. You can use both types of indexers simultaneously, but the return type of the numeric indexer must be a subtype of the string indexer's return type. This is because when indexing with a `number`, JavaScript converts it to a `string` before indexing into the object. That means indexing with `100` (a `number`) is the same as indexing with `'100'` (a `string`), so the two need to be consistent.

```typescript
class Animal {
  name: string
}
class Dog extends Animal {
  breed: string
}

// Error: indexing with a numeric string index might get a completely different Animal!
interface NotOkay {
  [x: number]: Animal
  [x: string]: Dog
}
```

String index signatures effectively describe the `dictionary` pattern, and they also enforce that all properties match their return type. Because string indexing declares that both `obj.property` and `obj['property']` are valid. In the following example, `name`'s type doesn't match the string index type, so the type checker gives an error:

```typescript
interface NumberDictionary {
  [index: string]: number;
  length: number;    // ok, length is a number
  name: string       // error, name's type doesn't match the index return type
}
```

Finally, you can make index signatures readonly to prevent assignment to indices:

```typescript
interface ReadonlyStringArray {
  readonly [index: number]: string;
}
let myArray: ReadonlyStringArray = ['Alice', 'Bob'];
myArray[2] = 'Mallory'; // error!
```

## Class Types

### Implementing an Interface

As in C# or Java, TypeScript can also be used to explicitly force a class to conform to a particular contract.

```typescript
interface ClockInterface {
  currentTime: Date
}

class Clock implements ClockInterface {
  currentTime: Date
  constructor(h: number, m: number) { }
}
```

You can also describe a method in the interface and implement it in the class, as with the `setTime` method below:

```typescript
interface ClockInterface {
  currentTime: Date
  setTime(d: Date)
}

class Clock implements ClockInterface {
  currentTime: Date
  setTime(d: Date) {
    this.currentTime = d
  }
  constructor(h: number, m: number) { }
}
```

Interfaces describe the public side of the class, rather than both the public and private sides. They won't help you check whether the class also has particular private members.

### Difference Between Static and Instance Sides of Classes

When working with classes and interfaces, keep in mind that a class has two types: the static side type and the instance type. You'll notice that when you define an interface with a constructor signature and try to define a class that implements it, you'll get an error:

```typescript
interface ClockConstructor {
  new (hour: number, minute: number)
}

// error
class Clock implements ClockConstructor {
  currentTime: Date
  constructor(h: number, m: number) { }
}
```

This is because when a class implements an interface, only the instance side is checked. The `constructor` exists on the static side, so it's not included in the check.

Instead, look at the following example. We define two interfaces: `ClockConstructor` for the constructor and `ClockInterface` for the instance methods. For convenience, we define a factory function `createClock` that creates instances with the passed-in type.

```typescript
interface ClockConstructor {
  new (hour: number, minute: number): ClockInterface
}
interface ClockInterface {
  tick()
}

function createClock(ctor: ClockConstructor, hour: number, minute: number): ClockInterface {
  return new ctor(hour, minute)
}

class DigitalClock implements ClockInterface {
  constructor(h: number, m: number) { }
  tick() {
    console.log('beep beep')
  }
}
class AnalogClock implements ClockInterface {
  constructor(h: number, m: number) { }
  tick() {
    console.log('tick tock')
  }
}

let digital = createClock(DigitalClock, 12, 17)
let analog = createClock(AnalogClock, 7, 32)
```

Because `createClock`'s first parameter is of type `ClockConstructor`, in `createClock(AnalogClock, 7, 32)`, it checks that `AnalogClock` conforms to the constructor signature.


## Extending Interfaces

Like classes, interfaces can extend each other. This allows us to copy members from one interface to another, giving us more flexibility in splitting interfaces into reusable modules.

```typescript
interface Shape {
  color: string
}

interface Square extends Shape {
  sideLength: number
}

let square = {} as Square
square.color = 'blue'
square.sideLength = 10
```

An interface can extend multiple interfaces, creating a combination of all the interfaces.

```typescript
interface Shape {
  color: string
}

interface PenStroke {
  penWidth: number
}

interface Square extends Shape, PenStroke {
  sideLength: number
}

let square = {} as Square
square.color = 'blue'
square.sideLength = 10
square.penWidth = 5.0
```

## Hybrid Types

As we mentioned earlier, interfaces can describe the rich variety of types found in JavaScript. Because of JavaScript's dynamic and flexible nature, you may occasionally want an object to work as a combination of the types described above.

One example is an object that acts as both a function and an object, with additional properties.

```typescript
interface Counter {
  (start: number): string
  interval: number
  reset(): void
}

function getCounter(): Counter {
  let counter = (function (start: number) { }) as Counter
  counter.interval = 123
  counter.reset = function () { }
  return counter
}

let c = getCounter()
c(10)
c.reset()
c.interval = 5.0
```

When working with third-party JavaScript libraries, you may need to fully define types like this. The `axios` library we'll be refactoring in this course is a great example.

## Interfaces Extending Classes

When an interface extends a class type, it inherits the members of the class but not their implementations. It's as if the interface declared all of the members of the class without providing an implementation. Interfaces also inherit the `private` and `protected` members of a class. This means that when you create an interface that extends a class with private or protected members, that interface type can only be implemented by that class or a subclass of it.

This is useful when you have a large inheritance hierarchy, but the point is that your code only works on subclasses with certain properties. These subclasses have no relation to the base class except inheriting from it. Example:

```typescript
class Control {
  private state: any
}

interface SelectableControl extends Control {
  select(): void
}

class Button extends Control implements SelectableControl {
  select() { }
}

class TextBox extends Control {
  select() { }
}

// Error: Type "ImageC" is missing property "state".
class ImageC implements SelectableControl {
  select() { }
}
```
In the above example, `SelectableControl` contains all members of `Control`, including the private member `state`. Since `state` is a private member, only subclasses of `Control` can implement `SelectableControl`. This is because only subclasses of `Control` will have a private member `state` declared in `Control`, which is required for private member compatibility.

Within the `Control` class, it's possible to access the private member `state` through an instance of `SelectableControl`. Effectively, `SelectableControl` is the same as a `Control` class with a `select` method. The `Button` and `TextBox` classes are subtypes of `SelectableControl` (because they both inherit from `Control` and have a `select` method), but the `ImageC` class is not.
