---
title: Classes
date: 2020-01-05 10:17:47
permalink: /pages/fad060bd9a8bfac6
author: HuangYi
categories:
  - Building axios from Scratch with TypeScript
  - Common TypeScript Syntax
tags:
  - TypeScript
---
# Classes

Traditional JavaScript programs use functions and prototype-based inheritance to build reusable components, but this feels awkward for programmers more comfortable with an object-oriented approach where classes are the foundation and objects are built from classes. Starting with ECMAScript 2015 (ES6), JavaScript programmers can build their applications using class-based object-oriented programming. With TypeScript, we allow developers to use these features now, and the compiled JavaScript runs on all major browsers and platforms without waiting for the next JavaScript version.

## Basic Example

Let's look at an example using classes:

```typescript
class Greeter {
  greeting: string
  constructor(message: string) {
    this.greeting = message
  }
  greet() {
    return 'Hello, ' + this.greeting
  }
}

let greeter = new Greeter('world')
```

If you've used C# or Java, this syntax will look very familiar. We declare a `Greeter` class. This class has 3 members: a property called `greeting`, a constructor, and a `greet` method.

You'll notice that we use `this` when referring to any class member. This indicates we're accessing a class member.

On the last line, we construct an instance of the `Greeter` class using `new`. This calls the previously defined constructor, creates a new `Greeter` object, and runs the constructor to initialize it.

## Inheritance

In TypeScript, we can use common object-oriented patterns. One of the most fundamental patterns in class-based programming is being able to extend existing classes using inheritance.

Let's look at an example:

```typescript
class Animal {
  move(distance: number = 0) {
    console.log(`Animal moved ${distance}m.`)
  }
}

class Dog extends Animal {
  bark() {
    console.log('Woof! Woof!')
  }
}

const dog = new Dog()
dog.bark()
dog.move(10)
```

This example shows the most basic inheritance: classes inherit properties and methods from base classes. Here, `Dog` is a derived class that derives from the `Animal` base class using the `extends` keyword. Derived classes are often called *subclasses*, and base classes are often called *superclasses*.

Because `Dog` inherits the functionality of `Animal`, we can create an instance of `Dog` that can both `bark()` and `move()`.

Let's look at a more complex example.

```typescript
class Animal {
  name: string
  constructor(name: string) {
    this.name = name
  }
  move(distance: number = 0) {
    console.log(`${this.name} moved ${distance}m.`)
  }
}

class Snake extends Animal {
  constructor(name: string) {
    super(name)
  }
  move(distance: number = 5) {
    console.log('Slithering...')
    super.move(distance)
  }
}

class Horse extends Animal {
  constructor(name: string) {
    super(name)
  }
  move(distance: number = 45) {
    console.log('Galloping...')
    super.move(distance)
  }
}

let sam = new Snake('Sammy')
let tom: Animal = new Horse('Tommy')

sam.move()
tom.move(34)
```

This example demonstrates some features not mentioned above. This time, we use the `extends` keyword to create two subclasses of Animal: `Horse` and `Snake`.

The difference from the previous example is that derived classes contain a constructor, which must call `super()`, which executes the base class constructor. Moreover, before accessing any property on `this` in the constructor, we must call `super()`. This is an important rule enforced by TypeScript.

This example also shows how to override methods from the parent class in subclasses. Both `Snake` and `Horse` create a `move` method that overrides the `move` inherited from `Animal`, giving `move` different functionality depending on the class. Note that even though `tom` is declared as `Animal`, since its value is `Horse`, calling `tom.move(34)` will call the overridden method in `Horse`.

```
Slithering...
Sammy moved 5m.
Galloping...
Tommy moved 34m.
```

## Public, Private, and Protected Modifiers

### Default to public

In the above examples, we can freely access the members defined in the program. If you're familiar with classes in other languages, you'll notice we didn't use `public` to qualify anything; for example, C# requires that you explicitly use `public` to make members visible. In TypeScript, members default to `public`.

You can also explicitly mark a member as `public`. We can rewrite the `Animal` class above as follows:

```typescript
class Animal {
  public name: string
  public constructor(name: string) {
    this.name = name
  }
  public move(distance: number) {
    console.log(`${this.name} moved ${distance}m.`)
  }
}
```

### Understanding private

When a member is marked `private`, it cannot be accessed from outside its declaring class. For example:

```typescript
class Animal {
  private name: string
  constructor(name: string) {
    this.name = name
  }
}

new Animal('Cat').name // Error: 'name' is private.
```

TypeScript uses a structural type system. When we compare two different types, regardless of where they came from, if the types of all members are compatible, then we consider the types themselves to be compatible.

However, when comparing types with `private` or `protected` members, things are different. If one type has a `private` member, then the other type must also have a `private` member originating from the same declaration for us to consider them compatible. The same rule applies to `protected` members.

Let's look at an example to better illustrate this:

```typescript
class Animal {
  private name: string
  constructor(name: string) {
    this.name = name
  }
}

class Rhino extends Animal {
  constructor() {
    super('Rhino')
  }
}

class Employee {
  private name: string
  constructor(name: string) {
    this.name = name
  }
}

let animal = new Animal('Goat')
let rhino = new Rhino()
let employee = new Employee('Bob')

animal = rhino
animal = employee // Error: Animal and Employee are not compatible.
```

In this example, we have `Animal` and `Rhino`, where `Rhino` is a subclass of `Animal`. We also have an `Employee` class that looks identical to `Animal` in terms of shape. We create instances of these classes and try to assign them to each other to see what happens. Because `Animal` and `Rhino` share the private member definition `private name: string` from `Animal`, they are compatible. However, `Employee` is not. When assigning `Employee` to `Animal`, we get an error saying their types are incompatible. Even though `Employee` also has a private member `name`, it's clearly not the one declared in `Animal`.

### Understanding protected

The `protected` modifier acts similarly to `private`, but with one difference: `protected` members are still accessible in derived classes. For example:

```typescript
class Person {
  protected name: string
  constructor(name: string) {
    this.name = name
  }
}

class Employee extends Person {
  private department: string

  constructor(name: string, department: string) {
    super(name)
    this.department = department
  }

  getElevatorPitch() {
    return `Hello, my name is ${this.name} and I work in ${this.department}.`
  }
}

let howard = new Employee('Howard', 'Sales')
console.log(howard.getElevatorPitch())
console.log(howard.name) // error
```

Note that we can't use `name` outside of `Person`, but we can still access it from within an instance method of `Employee` because `Employee` derives from `Person`.

A constructor can also be marked `protected`. This means the class cannot be instantiated outside of its containing class, but can be extended. For example:

```typescript
class Person {
  protected name: string
  protected constructor(name: string) {
    this.name = name
  }
}

// Employee can extend Person
class Employee extends Person {
  private department: string

  constructor(name: string, department: string) {
    super(name)
    this.department = department
  }

  public getElevatorPitch() {
    return `Hello, my name is ${this.name} and I work in ${this.department}.`
  }
}

let howard = new Employee('Howard', 'Sales')
let john = new Person('John') // Error: 'Person' constructor is protected.
```

## readonly Modifier

You can make properties read-only by using the `readonly` keyword. Read-only properties must be initialized at their declaration or in the constructor.

```typescript
class Person {
  readonly name: string
  constructor(name: string) {
    this.name = name
  }
}

let john = new Person('John')
john.name = 'peter'
```

### Parameter Properties

In the example above, we had to declare a read-only member `name` in the `Person` class and a constructor parameter `name`, then immediately assign `name` to `this.name` -- a common scenario. Parameter properties let us conveniently create and initialize a member in one place. Below is a modified version of the `Person` class using parameter properties:

```typescript
class Person {
  constructor(readonly name: string) {
  }
}
```

Notice how we dropped the `name` parameter and instead used `readonly name: string` in the constructor to create and initialize the `name` member. We merged the declaration and assignment into one place.

Parameter properties are declared by adding an accessibility modifier before a constructor parameter. Using `private` for a parameter property declares and initializes a private member; the same goes for `public` and `protected`.

## Accessors

`TypeScript` supports getters/setters to intercept access to object members. This gives you a way to have fine-grained control over how a member is accessed on each object.

Let's see how to convert a simple class to use `get` and `set`. First, let's start without accessors.

```typescript
class Employee {
  fullName: string
}

let employee = new Employee()
employee.fullName = 'Bob Smith'
if (employee.fullName) {
  console.log(employee.fullName)
}
```

We can set `fullName` because it's `public`. Sometimes we want to trigger extra logic when modifying it -- that's where accessors come in handy.

In this version, we first check that the user password is correct before allowing them to modify employee information. We replace direct access to `fullName` with a `set` accessor that checks the password. We also add a `get` accessor so the example above still works.

```typescript
let passcode = 'secret passcode'

class Employee {
  private _fullName: string

  get fullName(): string {
    return this._fullName
  }

  set fullName(newName: string) {
    if (passcode && passcode == 'secret passcode') {
      this._fullName = newName
    }
    else {
      console.log('Error: Unauthorized update of employee!')
    }
  }
}

let employee = new Employee()
employee.fullName = 'Bob Smith'
if (employee.fullName) {
  console.log(employee.fullName)
}
```

We can change the password to verify that the accessor is working. When the password is incorrect, we're notified that we don't have permission to modify the employee.

A couple of things to note about accessors:

First, accessors require you to set the compiler to output ECMAScript 5 or higher. Downleveling to ECMAScript 3 is not supported. Second, accessors with only a `get` and no `set` are automatically inferred as `readonly`. This is helpful when generating `.d.ts` files, because users of this property will see that it can't be changed.

## Static Properties

So far, we've only discussed instance members of the class -- those that are initialized only when the class is instantiated. We can also create static members of a class, which exist on the class itself rather than on instances. In this example, we use `static` on `origin` because it's a property used by all grids. Each instance accesses this property by prepending the class name. Just as we use `this.xxx` for instance properties, here we use `Grid.xxx` for static properties.

```typescript
class Grid {
  static origin = {x: 0, y: 0}

  scale: number

  constructor (scale: number) {
    this.scale = scale
  }

  calculateDistanceFromOrigin(point: {x: number; y: number}) {
    let xDist = point.x - Grid.origin.x
    let yDist = point.y - Grid.origin.y
    return Math.sqrt(xDist * xDist + yDist * yDist) * this.scale
  }
}

let grid1 = new Grid(1.0)  // 1x scale
let grid2 = new Grid(5.0)  // 5x scale

console.log(grid1.calculateDistanceFromOrigin({x: 3, y: 4}))
console.log(grid2.calculateDistanceFromOrigin({x: 3, y: 4}))
```

## Abstract Classes

Abstract classes are base classes from which other classes may be derived. They are generally not directly instantiated. Unlike interfaces, abstract classes may contain implementation details for their members. The `abstract` keyword is used to define abstract classes and abstract methods within them.

```typescript
abstract class Animal {
  abstract makeSound(): void
  move(): void {
    console.log('roaming the earth...')
  }
}
```

Abstract methods within an abstract class do not contain an implementation and must be implemented in derived classes. Abstract method syntax is similar to interface method syntax. Both define method signatures without method bodies. However, abstract methods must include the `abstract` keyword and may contain access modifiers.

```typescript
abstract class Department {
  name: string

  constructor(name: string) {
     this.name = name
  }

  printName(): void {
    console.log('Department name: ' + this.name)
  }

  abstract printMeeting(): void // must be implemented in derived classes
}

class AccountingDepartment extends Department {
  constructor() {
    super('Accounting and Auditing') // must call super() in derived class constructors
  }

  printMeeting(): void {
    console.log('The Accounting Department meets each Monday at 10am.')
  }

  generateReports(): void {
    console.log('Generating accounting reports...')
  }
}

let department: Department // ok to create a reference to an abstract type
department = new Department() // error: cannot create an instance of an abstract class
department = new AccountingDepartment() // ok to create and assign an abstract subclass
department.printName()
department.printMeeting()
department.generateReports() // error: method doesn't exist on the declared abstract type
```

## Advanced Techniques

### Constructors

When you declare a class in TypeScript, you are actually declaring multiple things at once. The first is the type of the class *instance*.

```typescript
class Greeter {
  static standardGreeting = 'Hello, there'
  greeting: string
  constructor(message: string) {
    this.greeting = message
  }
  greet() {
    return 'Hello, ' + this.greeting
  }
}

let greeter: Greeter
greeter = new Greeter('world')
console.log(greeter.greet())
```

Here, when we write `let greeter: Greeter`, we're saying that the type of `Greeter` class instances is `Greeter`. This is familiar to programmers from other object-oriented languages.

We also create what we call a *constructor function*. This is the function called when we `new` up instances of the class. Let's see what the above code looks like when compiled to JavaScript:

```javascript
var Greeter = /** @class */ (function () {
  function Greeter(message) {
    this.greeting = message;
  }
  Greeter.prototype.greet = function () {
    return 'Hello, ' + this.greeting;
  };
  Greeter.standardGreeting = 'Hello, there';
  return Greeter;
}());
var greeter;
greeter = new Greeter('world');
console.log(greeter.greet());
```

In the above code, `var Greeter` is assigned the constructor function. When we call `new` and execute this function, we get an instance of the class. This constructor function also contains all the static properties of the class. In other words, we can think of a class as having an *instance side* and a *static side*.

Let's modify the example slightly to see the differences:

```typescript
class Greeter {
  static standardGreeting = 'Hello, there'

  greeting: string

  constructor(message?: string) {
    this.greeting = message
  }

  greet() {
    if (this.greeting) {
      return 'Hello, ' + this.greeting
    } else {
      return Greeter.standardGreeting
    }
  }
}

let greeter: Greeter
greeter = new Greeter()
console.log(greeter.greet())

let greeterMaker: typeof Greeter = Greeter
greeterMaker.standardGreeting = 'Hey there'

let greeter2: Greeter = new greeterMaker()
console.log(greeter2.greet())
```

In this example, `greeter1` works just as we've seen before. We instantiate the Greeter class and use this object -- same as before.

Next, we use the class directly. We create a variable called `greeterMaker`. This variable holds the class itself, or put another way, holds the constructor function. Then we use `typeof Greeter`, which means "give me the type of `Greeter` itself" rather than the instance type. Or more precisely, "tell me the type of the `Greeter` identifier" -- which is the constructor function's type. This type contains all the static members and the constructor. After that, just like before, we use `new` on `greeterMaker` to create a new `Greeter` instance.

### Using a Class as an Interface

As mentioned in the previous section, a class declaration creates two things: the instance type of the class and a constructor function. Because classes create types, you can use them wherever interfaces are accepted.

```typescript
class Point {
  x: number
  y: number
}

interface Point3d extends Point {
  z: number
}

let point3d: Point3d = {x: 1, y: 2, z: 3}
```
