---
title: axios Function Overloading
date: 2020-01-05 10:56:02
permalink: /pages/8af227eae851ec97
author: HuangYi
categories:
  - Building axios from Scratch with TypeScript
  - ts-axios Interface Extensions
tags:
  - TypeScript
---
# axios Function Overloading

## Requirements Analysis

Currently, our axios function only supports passing 1 argument, as follows:

```typescript
axios({
  url: '/extend/post',
  method: 'post',
  data: {
    msg: 'hi'
  }
})
```

We want the function to also support passing 2 arguments, as follows:

```typescript
axios('/extend/post', {
  method: 'post',
  data: {
    msg: 'hello'
  }
})
```

The first argument is the `url`, and the second argument is `config`. This function is somewhat similar to the argument types supported by the `axios.get` method, except that if we want to specify the HTTP method type, we still need to pass `method` in `config`.

This is where the function overloading concept we learned earlier comes in. Let's implement it.

## Overloading Implementation

First, we need to modify the `AxiosInstance` type definition.

`types/index.ts`:

```typescript
export interface AxiosInstance extends Axios {
  (config: AxiosRequestConfig): AxiosPromise

  (url: string, config?: AxiosRequestConfig): AxiosPromise
}
```

We added a new function definition that supports 2 arguments, where `url` is a required parameter and `config` is an optional parameter.

Since the `axios` function actually points to the `request` function, let's modify the `request` function's implementation.

`core/Axios.ts`:

```typescript
  request(url: any, config?: any): AxiosPromise {
    if (typeof url === 'string') {
      if (!config) {
        config = {}
      }
      config.url = url
    } else {
      config = url
    }
    return dispatchRequest(config)
  }
```

We changed the `request` function's parameters to 2, with both `url` and `config` being `any` type, and `config` remaining optional.

In the function body, we check whether `url` is a string type. If it is a string type, we proceed to check `config`, since it might not be passed. If it's empty, we construct an empty object and then add `url` to `config.url`. If `url` is not a string type, it means we passed a single argument, and `url` is actually `config`, so we assign `url` to `config`.

Note that although we modified the `request` implementation to support 2 types of parameters, the externally provided `request` interface remains unchanged. Think of this as merely an internal implementation change that doesn't need to match the external interface -- it only needs to remain compatible with the interface.

## Writing the Demo

`examples/extend/app.ts`:

```typescript
axios({
  url: '/extend/post',
  method: 'post',
  data: {
    msg: 'hi'
  }
})

axios('/extend/post', {
  method: 'post',
  data: {
    msg: 'hello'
  }
})
```

We used both ways of calling `axios`. Open the page and run the demo. Through the network panel, we can see that both request methods are working correctly.

At this point, we have implemented function overloading for `axios`. The official axios supports a capability where we can define the type of the return data and specify that type when making a request, so that we can access the data type in the response data. In the next section, we will implement this feature.
