---
title: Basic syntax of Class
date: 2020-02-09 16:00:29
permalink: /pages/e831e1593c82bbe0
author: 阮一峰
categories:
  - ES6 Tutorial Notes
tags:
  - ES6
---
# Basic syntax of Class

## Introduction

### The origin of classes

In JavaScript, the traditional way to generate instance objects is through constructor functions. Here is an example.

```javascript
function Point(x, y) {
  this.x = x;
  this.y = y;
}

Point.prototype.toString = function () {
  return '(' + this.x + ', ' + this.y + ')';
};

var p = new Point(1, 2);
```
<!-- more -->
The syntax above is very different from traditional object-oriented languages (such as C++ and Java), which can easily confuse programmers who are new to this language.

ES6 provides a syntax that is closer to traditional languages, introducing the concept of Class as a template for objects. With the `class` keyword, you can define a class.

Basically, ES6's `class` can be seen as just syntactic sugar; the vast majority of its functionality can be achieved with ES5, and the new `class` syntax merely makes object prototype syntax clearer and more like object-oriented programming syntax. Rewriting the code above with ES6's `class` looks like the following.

```javascript
class Point {
  constructor(x, y) {
    this.x = x;
    this.y = y;
  }

  toString() {
    return '(' + this.x + ', ' + this.y + ')';
  }
}
```

The code above defines a "class". You can see there is a `constructor` method inside it, which is the constructor method, and the `this` keyword represents the instance object. In other words, the ES5 constructor function `Point` corresponds to the constructor method of the ES6 `Point` class.

Besides the constructor method, the `Point` class also defines a `toString` method. Note that **when defining a method of a "class", you do not need to add the `function` keyword in front; you can just put the function definition directly inside. Also, methods do not need to be separated by commas, and adding them will cause an error.**

An ES6 class can be entirely regarded as another way of writing a constructor function.

```javascript
class Point {
  // ...
}

typeof Point // "function"
Point === Point.prototype.constructor // true
```

The code above shows that the data type of a class is a function, and the class itself points to the constructor function.

When using it, you also apply the `new` command directly to the class, which is exactly the same as the usage of a constructor function.

```javascript
class Bar {
  doStuff() {
    console.log('stuff');
  }
}

var b = new Bar();
b.doStuff() // "stuff"
```

The `prototype` property of constructor functions continues to exist on ES6 "classes". In fact, **all methods of a class are defined on the class's `prototype` property.**

```javascript
class Point {
  constructor() {
    // ...
  }

  toString() {
    // ...
  }

  toValue() {
    // ...
  }
}

// equivalent to

Point.prototype = {
  constructor() {},
  toString() {},
  toValue() {},
};
```

Calling a method on an instance of a class is actually calling a method on the prototype.

```javascript
class B {}
let b = new B();

b.constructor === B.prototype.constructor // true
```

In the code above, `b` is an instance of class `B`, and its `constructor` method is the `constructor` method of the `B` class prototype.

Since the methods of a class are all defined on the `prototype` object, new methods of the class can be added to the `prototype` object. **The `Object.assign` method can conveniently add multiple methods to a class at once.**

```javascript
class Point {
  constructor(){
    // ...
  }
}

Object.assign(Point.prototype, {
  toString(){},
  toValue(){}
});
```

The `constructor` property of the `prototype` object points directly to the class itself, which is consistent with ES5 behavior.

```javascript
Point.prototype.constructor === Point // true
```

In addition, **all methods defined inside a class are non-enumerable** (non-enumerable).

```javascript
class Point {
  constructor(x, y) {
    // ...
  }

  toString() {
    // ...
  }
}

Object.keys(Point.prototype)
// []
Object.getOwnPropertyNames(Point.prototype)
// ["constructor","toString"]
```

In the code above, the `toString` method is a method defined inside the `Point` class, and it is non-enumerable. This is inconsistent with ES5 behavior.

```javascript
var Point = function (x, y) {
  // ...
};

Point.prototype.toString = function() {
  // ...
};

Object.keys(Point.prototype)
// ["toString"]
Object.getOwnPropertyNames(Point.prototype)
// ["constructor","toString"]
```

The code above uses the ES5 syntax, and the `toString` method is enumerable.

### The constructor method

The `constructor` method is the default method of a class. **When an object instance is generated through the `new` command, this method is automatically called**. A class must have a `constructor` method; if not explicitly defined, an empty `constructor` method is added by default.

```javascript
class Point {
}

// equivalent to
class Point {
  constructor() {}
}
```

In the code above, an empty class `Point` is defined, and the JavaScript engine automatically adds an empty `constructor` method to it.

The `constructor` method returns the instance object (i.e., `this`) by default, but you can specify that it return another object instead.

```javascript
class Foo {
  constructor() {
    return Object.create(null);
  }
}

new Foo() instanceof Foo
// false
```

In the code above, the `constructor` function returns a completely new object, with the result that the instance object is not an instance of the `Foo` class.

**A class must be called with `new`, otherwise an error will be thrown**. This is one of the main differences from an ordinary constructor function, which can be executed without `new`.

```javascript
class Foo {
  constructor() {
    return Object.create(null);
  }
}

Foo()
// TypeError: Class constructor Foo cannot be invoked without 'new'
```

### Instances of a class

The syntax for generating an instance of a class is exactly the same as in ES5, also using the `new` command. As mentioned earlier, if you forget to add `new` and call `Class` like a function, an error will be thrown.

```javascript
class Point {
  // ...
}

// error
var point = Point(2, 3);

// correct
var point = new Point(2, 3);
```

As in ES5, unless the properties of an instance are explicitly defined on the instance itself (i.e., on the `this` object), they are all defined on the prototype (i.e., on the `class`).

```javascript
// define the class
class Point {

  constructor(x, y) { // the constructor property is defined on the prototype
    this.x = x; // the x property is defined on the instance
    this.y = y; // the y property is defined on the instance
  }

  toString() { // the toString property is defined on the prototype
    return '(' + this.x + ', ' + this.y + ')';
  }

}

var point = new Point(2, 3);

point.toString() // (2, 3)

point.hasOwnProperty('x') // true
point.hasOwnProperty('y') // true
point.hasOwnProperty('toString') // false
point.__proto__.hasOwnProperty('toString') // true
```

In the code above, both `x` and `y` are properties of the instance object `point` itself (because they are defined on the `this` variable), so the `hasOwnProperty` method returns `true`, while `toString` is a property of the prototype object (because it is defined on the `Point` class), so the `hasOwnProperty` method returns `false`. These are all consistent with ES5 behavior.

As in ES5, all instances of a class share a single prototype object.

```javascript
var p1 = new Point(2,3);
var p2 = new Point(3,2);

p1.__proto__ === p2.__proto__
//true
```

In the code above, both `p1` and `p2` are instances of `Point`, and their prototypes are both `Point.prototype`, so the `__proto__` properties are equal.

This also means that you can add methods to a "class" through the `__proto__` property of an instance.

> `__proto__` is not a feature of the language itself; it is a private property added by the various vendors in their specific implementations. Although many modern browsers' JS engines currently provide this private property, it is still not recommended to use this property in production, to avoid creating a dependency on the environment. In a production environment, we can use the `Object.getPrototypeOf` method to get the prototype of an instance object, and then add methods/properties to the prototype.

```javascript
var p1 = new Point(2,3);
var p2 = new Point(3,2);

p1.__proto__.printName = function () { return 'Oops' };

p1.printName() // "Oops"
p2.printName() // "Oops"

var p3 = new Point(4,2);
p3.printName() // "Oops"
```

The code above adds a `printName` method on the prototype of `p1`. Since the prototype of `p1` is the prototype of `p2`, `p2` can also call this method. Moreover, the newly created instance `p3` can also call this method afterwards. This means that you must be quite careful when using an instance's `__proto__` property to rewrite the prototype; it is not recommended, because this changes the original definition of the "class" and affects all instances.

### Getter and setter functions

As in ES5, you can use the `get` and `set` keywords inside a "class" to set a setter function and a getter function for a property, intercepting the get/set behavior of that property.

```javascript
class MyClass {
  constructor() {
    // ...
  }
  get prop() {
    return 'getter';
  }
  set prop(value) {
    console.log('setter: '+value);
  }
}

let inst = new MyClass();

inst.prop = 123;
// setter: 123

inst.prop
// 'getter'
```

In the code above, the `prop` property has a corresponding setter function and getter function, so both the assignment and reading behaviors are customized.

**The setter function and getter function are set on the Descriptor object of the property.**

```javascript
class CustomHTMLElement {
  constructor(element) {
    this.element = element;
  }

  get html() {
    return this.element.innerHTML;
  }

  set html(value) {
    this.element.innerHTML = value;
  }
}

var descriptor = Object.getOwnPropertyDescriptor(
  CustomHTMLElement.prototype, "html"
);

"get" in descriptor  // true
"set" in descriptor  // true
```

In the code above, the setter function and getter function are defined on the descriptor object of the `html` property, which is exactly consistent with ES5.

### Property expressions

The property name of a class can use an expression.

```javascript
let methodName = 'getArea';

class Square {
  constructor(length) {
    // ...
  }

  [methodName]() {
    // ...
  }
}
```

In the code above, the method name `getArea` of the `Square` class is obtained from an expression.

### Class expressions

Like functions, classes can also be defined in the form of an expression.

```javascript
const MyClass = class Me {
  getClassName() {
    return Me.name;
  }
};
```

The code above uses an expression to define a class. It should be noted that the name of this class is `Me`, but `Me` is only available inside the Class, referring to the current class. Outside the Class, this class can only be referenced with `MyClass`.

```javascript
let inst = new MyClass();
inst.getClassName() // Me
Me.name // ReferenceError: Me is not defined
```

The code above shows that `Me` is only defined inside the Class.

If it is not used inside the class, `Me` can be omitted, that is, it can be written in the following form.

```javascript
const MyClass = class { /* ... */ };
```

Using Class expressions, you can write an immediately-invoked Class.

```javascript
let person = new class {
  constructor(name) {
    this.name = name;
  }

  sayName() {
    console.log(this.name);
  }
}('Zhang San');

person.sayName(); // "Zhang San"
```

In the code above, `person` is an instance of an immediately-invoked class.

### Points to note

**(1) Strict mode**

The inside of classes and modules is in strict mode by default, so you do not need to use `use strict` to specify the running mode. As long as your code is written inside a class or module, only strict mode is available. Considering that all code in the future will actually run inside modules, ES6 has actually upgraded the entire language to strict mode.

**(2) No hoisting**

Classes are not subject to variable hoisting, which is completely different from ES5.

```javascript
new Foo(); // ReferenceError
class Foo {}
```

In the code above, the `Foo` class is used before it is defined, and this will throw an error, because ES6 does not hoist the class declaration to the top of the code. The reason for this rule is related to inheritance, which will be mentioned below; it must be guaranteed that a subclass is defined after the parent class.

```javascript
{
  let Foo = class {};
  class Bar extends Foo {
  }
}
```

The code above will not throw an error, because when `Bar` inherits from `Foo`, `Foo` is already defined. However, if `class` were hoisted, the code above would throw an error, because `class` would be hoisted to the top of the code while the `let` command is not hoisted, so when `Bar` inherits from `Foo`, `Foo` would not yet be defined.

**(3) The name property**

Since an ES6 class is essentially just a wrapper around an ES5 constructor function, many features of functions are inherited by `Class`, including the `name` property.

```javascript
class Point {}
Point.name // "Point"
```

The `name` property always returns the class name that immediately follows the `class` keyword.

**(4) Generator methods**

If an asterisk (`*`) is added before a method, it indicates that the method is a Generator function.

```javascript
class Foo {
  constructor(...args) {
    this.args = args;
  }
  * [Symbol.iterator]() {
    for (let arg of this.args) {
      yield arg;
    }
  }
}

for (let x of new Foo('hello', 'world')) {
  console.log(x);
}
// hello
// world
```

In the code above, there is an asterisk before the `Symbol.iterator` method of the `Foo` class, indicating that the method is a Generator function. The `Symbol.iterator` method returns the default iterator of the `Foo` class, and the `for...of` loop automatically calls this iterator.

**(5) The reference of this**

If a method of a class contains `this`, it points to the instance of the class by default. However, you must be very careful, as an error is likely to occur once the method is used on its own.

```javascript
class Logger {
  printName(name = 'there') {
    this.print(`Hello ${name}`);
  }

  print(text) {
    console.log(text);
  }
}

const logger = new Logger();
const { printName } = logger;
printName(); // TypeError: Cannot read property 'print' of undefined
```

In the code above, the `this` in the `printName` method points to the instance of the `Logger` class by default. However, if this method is extracted and used on its own, `this` points to the environment where the method runs (since the inside of a class is in strict mode, `this` actually points to `undefined`), which results in not being able to find the `print` method and throwing an error.

A relatively simple solution is to bind `this` in the constructor method, so that the `print` method will not be missing.

```javascript
class Logger {
  constructor() {
    this.printName = this.printName.bind(this);
  }

  // ...
}
```

Another solution is to use an arrow function.

```javascript
class Obj {
  constructor() {
    this.getThis = () => this;
  }
}

const myObj = new Obj();
myObj.getThis() === myObj // true
```

The `this` inside an arrow function always points to the object where it was defined. In the code above, the arrow function is located inside the constructor function, and its definition takes effect when the constructor function is executed. At this point, the running environment where the arrow function resides is definitely the instance object, so `this` will always point to the instance object.

There is also another solution that uses `Proxy` to automatically bind `this` when a method is obtained.

```javascript
function selfish (target) {
  const cache = new WeakMap();
  const handler = {
    get (target, key) {
      const value = Reflect.get(target, key);
      if (typeof value !== 'function') {
        return value;
      }
      if (!cache.has(value)) {
        cache.set(value, value.bind(target));
      }
      return cache.get(value);
    }
  };
  const proxy = new Proxy(target, handler);
  return proxy;
}

const logger = selfish(new Logger());
```

## Static methods

A class is equivalent to the prototype of its instances, and all methods defined in the class are inherited by the instances. If you **add the `static` keyword before a method, it indicates that the method will not be inherited by instances, but is instead called directly through the class. This is called a "static method"**.

```javascript
class Foo {
  static classMethod() {
    return 'hello';
  }
}

Foo.classMethod() // 'hello'

var foo = new Foo();
foo.classMethod()
// TypeError: foo.classMethod is not a function
```

In the code above, the `classMethod` method of the `Foo` class is preceded by the `static` keyword, indicating that the method is a static method that can be called directly on the `Foo` class (`Foo.classMethod()`), rather than on an instance of the `Foo` class. If a static method is called on an instance, an error is thrown, indicating that the method does not exist.

Note that **if a static method contains the `this` keyword, this `this` refers to the class, not the instance.**

```javascript
class Foo {
  static bar() {
    this.baz();
  }
  static baz() {
    console.log('hello');
  }
  baz() {
    console.log('world');
  }
}

Foo.bar() // hello
```

In the code above, the static method `bar` calls `this.baz`, and here `this` refers to the `Foo` class, not an instance of `Foo`, which is equivalent to calling `Foo.baz`. In addition, this example also shows that a static method can have the same name as a non-static method.

The static methods of a parent class can be inherited by a subclass.

```javascript
class Foo {
  static classMethod() {
    return 'hello';
  }
}

class Bar extends Foo {
}

Bar.classMethod() // 'hello'
```

In the code above, the parent class `Foo` has a static method, and the subclass `Bar` can call this method.

Static methods can also be called from the `super` object.

```javascript
class Foo {
  static classMethod() {
    return 'hello';
  }
}

class Bar extends Foo {
  static classMethod() {
    return super.classMethod() + ', too';
  }
}

Bar.classMethod() // "hello, too"
```

## New syntax for instance properties

Besides being defined on `this` inside the `constructor()` method, instance properties can also be defined at the top level of the class.

```javascript
class IncreasingCounter {
  constructor() {
    this._count = 0;
  }
  get value() {
    console.log('Getting the current value!');
    return this._count;
  }
  increment() {
    this._count++;
  }
}
```

In the code above, the instance property `this._count` is defined inside the `constructor()` method. Another syntax is that this property can also be defined at the top level of the class, with everything else unchanged.

```javascript
class IncreasingCounter {
  _count = 0;
  get value() {
    console.log('Getting the current value!');
    return this._count;
  }
  increment() {
    this._count++;
  }
}
```

In the code above, the instance property `_count` is at the same level as the getter function `value()` and the `increment()` method. In this case, you do not need to add `this` before the instance property.

The benefit of this new syntax is that all of an instance object's own properties are defined at the head of the class, which looks tidier, and you can tell at a glance which instance properties the class has.

```javascript
class foo {
  bar = 'hello';
  baz = 'world';

  constructor() {
    // ...
  }
}
```

In the code above, you can tell at a glance that the `foo` class has two instance properties, perfectly clear. In addition, it is also more concise to write.

## Static properties

A static property refers to a property of the Class itself, i.e., `Class.propName`, rather than a property defined on the instance object (`this`).

```javascript
class Foo {
}

Foo.prop = 1;
Foo.prop // 1
```

The syntax above defines a static property `prop` for the `Foo` class.

Currently, only this syntax is feasible, because ES6 explicitly stipulates that there are only static methods inside a Class, not static properties. There is now a [proposal](https://github.com/tc39/proposal-class-fields) that provides static properties for classes, with the syntax being to add the `static` keyword in front of an instance property.

```javascript
class MyClass {
  static myStaticProp = 42;

  constructor() {
    console.log(MyClass.myStaticProp); // 42
  }
}
```

This new syntax greatly facilitates the expression of static properties.

```javascript
// old syntax
class Foo {
  // ...
}
Foo.prop = 1;

// new syntax
class Foo {
  static prop = 1;
}
```

In the code above, with the old syntax the static property is defined outside the class. After the entire class is generated, the static property is then generated. This makes it easy to overlook this static property, and it also does not conform to the code organization principle that related code should be placed together. In addition, the new syntax is declarative (declarative), rather than assignment processing, with better semantics.

## Private methods and private properties

### Existing solutions

Private methods and private properties are methods and properties that can only be accessed inside the class and cannot be accessed externally. This is a common requirement that helps with code encapsulation, but ES6 does not provide it, so it can only be simulated through workarounds.

One approach is to distinguish them in naming.

```javascript
class Widget {

  // public method
  foo (baz) {
    this._bar(baz);
  }

  // private method
  _bar(baz) {
    return this.snaf = baz;
  }

  // ...
}
```

In the code above, the underscore before the `_bar` method indicates that this is a private method intended for internal use only. However, this naming is not foolproof, and this method can still be called from outside the class.

Another approach is to simply move the private method out of the module, because all methods inside a module are externally visible.

```javascript
class Widget {
  foo (baz) {
    bar.call(this, baz);
  }

  // ...
}

function bar(baz) {
  return this.snaf = baz;
}
```

In the code above, `foo` is a public method that internally calls `bar.call(this, baz)`. This makes `bar` effectively a private method of the current module.

There is yet another approach that uses the uniqueness of `Symbol` values to name the private method as a `Symbol` value.

```javascript
const bar = Symbol('bar');
const snaf = Symbol('snaf');

export default class myClass{

  // public method
  foo(baz) {
    this[bar](baz);
  }

  // private method
  [bar](baz) {
    return this[snaf] = baz;
  }

  // ...
};
```

In the code above, both `bar` and `snaf` are `Symbol` values, which normally cannot be obtained, thus achieving the effect of private methods and private properties. But it is not absolutely impossible, as `Reflect.ownKeys()` can still obtain them.

```javascript
const inst = new myClass();

Reflect.ownKeys(myClass.prototype)
// [ 'constructor', 'foo', Symbol(bar) ]
```

In the code above, the property names of Symbol values can still be obtained from outside the class.

### Proposal for private properties

Currently, there is a [proposal](https://github.com/tc39/proposal-private-methods) that adds private properties to `class`. The method is to use `#` before the property name.

```javascript
class IncreasingCounter {
  #count = 0;
  get value() {
    console.log('Getting the current value!');
    return this.#count;
  }
  increment() {
    this.#count++;
  }
}
```

In the code above, `#count` is a private property that can only be used inside the class (`this.#count`). If it is used outside the class, an error is thrown.

```javascript
const counter = new IncreasingCounter();
counter.#count // error
counter.#count = 42 // error
```

In the code above, reading the private property outside the class throws an error.

Below is another example.

```javascript
class Point {
  #x;

  constructor(x = 0) {
    this.#x = +x;
  }

  get x() {
    return this.#x;
  }

  set x(value) {
    this.#x = +value;
  }
}
```

In the code above, `#x` is a private property, and this property cannot be read outside the `Point` class. Since the hash sign `#` is part of the property name, it must be used together with `#` when used, so `#x` and `x` are two different properties.

The reason for introducing a new prefix `#` to denote private properties, rather than adopting a `private` keyword, is that JavaScript is a dynamic language without type declarations, and using a separate symbol seems to be the only relatively convenient and reliable way to accurately distinguish whether a property is private. In addition, the Ruby language uses `@` to denote private properties; ES6 did not use this symbol but used `#` because `@` has already been reserved for Decorators.

This syntax can be used not only to write private properties, but also to write private methods.

```javascript
class Foo {
  #a;
  #b;
  constructor(a, b) {
    this.#a = a;
    this.#b = b;
  }
  #sum() {
    return #a + #b;
  }
  printSum() {
    console.log(this.#sum());
  }
}
```

In the code above, `#sum()` is a private method.

In addition, private properties can also have getter and setter methods set.

```javascript
class Counter {
  #xValue = 0;

  constructor() {
    super();
    // ...
  }

  get #x() { return #xValue; }
  set #x(value) {
    this.#xValue = value;
  }
}
```

In the code above, `#x` is a private property, and its reading and writing are both done through `get #x()` and `set #x()`.

Private properties are not limited to being referenced from `this`; as long as it is inside the class, instances can also reference private properties.

```javascript
class Foo {
  #privateValue = 42;
  static getPrivateValue(foo) {
    return foo.#privateValue;
  }
}

Foo.getPrivateValue(new Foo()); // 42
```

The code above allows referencing a private property from the instance `foo`.

The `static` keyword can also be added before private properties and private methods, indicating that this is a static private property or private method.

```javascript
class FakeMath {
  static PI = 22 / 7;
  static #totallyRandomNumber = 4;

  static #computeRandomNumber() {
    return FakeMath.#totallyRandomNumber;
  }

  static random() {
    console.log('I heard you like random numbers…')
    return FakeMath.#computeRandomNumber();
  }
}

FakeMath.PI // 3.142857142857143
FakeMath.random()
// I heard you like random numbers…
// 4
FakeMath.#totallyRandomNumber // error
FakeMath.#computeRandomNumber() // error
```

In the code above, `#totallyRandomNumber` is a private property and `#computeRandomNumber()` is a private method, which can only be called inside the `FakeMath` class; calling them externally throws an error.

## The new.target property

`new` is the command for generating an instance object from a constructor function. ES6 introduces a `new.target` property for the `new` command. This property is generally used inside a constructor function and returns the constructor function on which the `new` command operates. If the constructor function is not called via the `new` command or `Reflect.construct()`, `new.target` returns `undefined`, so this property can be used to determine how a constructor function was called.

```javascript
function Person(name) {
  if (new.target !== undefined) {
    this.name = name;
  } else {
    throw new Error('must use the new command to generate an instance');
  }
}

// another way of writing
function Person(name) {
  if (new.target === Person) {
    this.name = name;
  } else {
    throw new Error('must use the new command to generate an instance');
  }
}

var person = new Person('Zhang San'); // correct
var notAPerson = Person.call(person, 'Zhang San');  // error
```

The code above ensures that the constructor function can only be called via the `new` command.

When `new.target` is called inside a Class, it returns the current Class.

```javascript
class Rectangle {
  constructor(length, width) {
    console.log(new.target === Rectangle);
    this.length = length;
    this.width = width;
  }
}

var obj = new Rectangle(3, 4); // outputs true
```

It should be noted that when a subclass inherits from a parent class, `new.target` returns the subclass.

```javascript
class Rectangle {
  constructor(length, width) {
    console.log(new.target === Rectangle);
    // ...
  }
}

class Square extends Rectangle {
  constructor(length) {
    super(length, width);
  }
}

var obj = new Square(3); // outputs false
```

In the code above, `new.target` returns the subclass.

Using this characteristic, you can write a class that cannot be used on its own and can only be used after being inherited.

```javascript
class Shape {
  constructor() {
    if (new.target === Shape) {
      throw new Error('this class cannot be instantiated');
    }
  }
}

class Rectangle extends Shape {
  constructor(length, width) {
    super();
    // ...
  }
}

var x = new Shape();  // error
var y = new Rectangle(3, 4);  // correct
```

In the code above, the `Shape` class cannot be instantiated and can only be used for inheritance.

Note that using `new.target` outside of a function throws an error.
