---
title: Inheritance with Class
date: 2020-02-09 16:00:29
permalink: /pages/83f8c3a0cd87dd83
author: 阮一峰
categories:
  - ES6 Tutorial Notes
tags:
  - ES6
---
# Inheritance with Class

## Introduction

Class can implement inheritance through the `extends` keyword. This is much clearer and more convenient than implementing inheritance by modifying the prototype chain in ES5.

```javascript
class Point {
}

class ColorPoint extends Point {
}
```
<!-- more -->
The code above defines a `ColorPoint` class, which inherits all the properties and methods of the `Point` class through the `extends` keyword. But since no code has been added, these two classes are exactly the same, equivalent to copying the `Point` class. Below, we add some code inside `ColorPoint`.

```javascript
class ColorPoint extends Point {
  constructor(x, y, color) {
    super(x, y); // call the parent class's constructor(x, y)
    this.color = color;
  }

  toString() {
    return this.color + ' ' + super.toString(); // call the parent class's toString()
  }
}
```

In the code above, the `super` keyword appears in both the `constructor` method and the `toString` method. Here it represents the parent class's constructor, used to create the parent class's `this` object.

**A subclass must call the `super` method in its `constructor` method, otherwise an error will be thrown when creating a new instance.** This is because the subclass's own `this` object must first be shaped by the parent class's constructor, obtaining the same instance properties and methods as the parent class, and only then can it be processed further by adding the subclass's own instance properties and methods. **If the `super` method is not called, the subclass will not get the `this` object.**

```javascript
class Point { /* ... */ }

class ColorPoint extends Point {
  constructor() {
  }
}

let cp = new ColorPoint(); // ReferenceError
```

In the code above, `ColorPoint` inherits from the parent class `Point`, but its constructor does not call the `super` method, causing an error when creating a new instance.

ES5's inheritance essentially first creates the subclass's instance object `this`, and then adds the parent class's methods onto `this` (`Parent.apply(this)`). ES6's inheritance mechanism is completely different: it essentially first adds the properties and methods of the parent class's instance object onto `this` (which is why the `super` method must be called first), and then modifies `this` with the subclass's constructor.

If the subclass does not define a `constructor` method, this method will be added by default, as shown below. In other words, whether or not it is explicitly defined, every subclass has a `constructor` method.

```javascript
class ColorPoint extends Point {
}

// equivalent to
class ColorPoint extends Point {
  constructor(...args) {
    super(...args);
  }
}
```

Another point to note is that **in the subclass's constructor, the `this` keyword can only be used after calling `super`, otherwise an error will be thrown.** This is because the construction of the subclass instance is based on the parent class instance, and only the `super` method can call the parent class instance.

```javascript
class Point {
  constructor(x, y) {
    this.x = x;
    this.y = y;
  }
}

class ColorPoint extends Point {
  constructor(x, y, color) {
    this.color = color; // ReferenceError
    super(x, y);
    this.color = color; // correct
  }
}
```

In the code above, the subclass's `constructor` method uses the `this` keyword before calling `super`, which results in an error; placing it after the `super` method is correct.

Below is the code to generate a subclass instance.

```javascript
let cp = new ColorPoint(25, 8, 'green');

cp instanceof ColorPoint // true
cp instanceof Point // true
```

In the code above, the instance object `cp` is an instance of both the `ColorPoint` and `Point` classes, which is completely consistent with the behavior of ES5.

Finally, the parent class's static methods are also inherited by the subclass.

```javascript
class A {
  static hello() {
    console.log('hello world');
  }
}

class B extends A {
}

B.hello()  // hello world
```

In the code above, `hello()` is a static method of class `A`. `B` inherits from `A` and also inherits `A`'s static method.

## Object.getPrototypeOf()

The `Object.getPrototypeOf` method can be used to get the parent class from a subclass.

```javascript
Object.getPrototypeOf(ColorPoint) === Point
// true
```

Therefore, this method can be used to determine whether one class inherits from another.

## The super keyword

**The `super` keyword can be used both as a function and as an object**. Its usage is completely different in these two cases.

In the first case, when `super` is called as a function, it represents the parent class's constructor. ES6 requires that the subclass's constructor must execute the `super` function once.

```javascript
class A {}

class B extends A {
  constructor() {
    super();
  }
}
```

In the code above, `super()` inside the constructor of subclass `B` represents calling the parent class's constructor. This is mandatory, otherwise the JavaScript engine will throw an error.

Note that **although `super` represents the constructor of the parent class `A`, what it returns is an instance of the subclass `B`**, that is, the `this` inside `super` refers to the instance of `B`. Therefore, `super()` here is equivalent to `A.prototype.constructor.call(this)`.

```javascript
class A {
  constructor() {
    console.log(new.target.name);
  }
}
class B extends A {
  constructor() {
    super();
  }
}
new A() // A
new B() // B
```

In the code above, `new.target` points to the function currently being executed. As you can see, when `super()` is executed, it points to the constructor of subclass `B`, not the constructor of parent class `A`. In other words, the `this` inside `super()` points to `B`.

**When used as a function, `super()` can only be used inside the subclass's constructor; using it elsewhere will throw an error.**

```javascript
class A {}

class B extends A {
  m() {
    super(); // error
  }
}
```

In the code above, using `super()` inside the `m` method of class `B` causes a syntax error.

In the second case, **when `super` is used as an object, in an ordinary method it points to the parent class's prototype object; in a static method it points to the parent class.**

```javascript
class A {
  p() {
    return 2;
  }
}

class B extends A {
  constructor() {
    super();
    console.log(super.p()); // 2
  }
}

let b = new B();
```

In the code above, `super.p()` inside subclass `B` uses `super` as an object. In this case, `super` is inside an ordinary method, so it points to `A.prototype`, which means `super.p()` is equivalent to `A.prototype.p()`.

Note here that since `super` points to the parent class's prototype object, methods or properties defined on the parent class's instance cannot be called through `super`.

```javascript
class A {
  constructor() {
    this.p = 2; // this is a property defined on the instance
  }
}

class B extends A {
  get m() {
    return super.p;
  }
}

let b = new B();
b.m // undefined
```

In the code above, `p` is a property of the parent class `A`'s instance, and `super.p` cannot reference it.

If a property is defined on the parent class's prototype object, `super` can access it.

```javascript
class A {}
A.prototype.x = 2;

class B extends A {
  constructor() {
    super();
    console.log(super.x) // 2
  }
}

let b = new B();
```

In the code above, the property `x` is defined on `A.prototype`, so `super.x` can access its value.

ES6 specifies that **when a parent class method is called through `super` in a subclass's ordinary method, the `this` inside the method points to the current subclass instance**.

```javascript
class A {
  constructor() {
    this.x = 1;
  }
  print() {
    console.log(this.x);
  }
}

class B extends A {
  constructor() {
    super();
    this.x = 2;
  }
  m() {
    super.print();
  }
}

let b = new B();
b.m() // 2
```

In the code above, although `super.print()` calls `A.prototype.print()`, the `this` inside `A.prototype.print()` points to the instance of subclass `B`, resulting in the output being `2` rather than `1`. In other words, what is actually executed is `super.print.call(this)`.

Since `this` points to the subclass instance, if you assign a value to some property through `super`, then `super` is `this`, and the assigned property becomes a property of the subclass instance.

```javascript
class A {
  constructor() {
    this.x = 1;
  }
}

class B extends A {
  constructor() {
    super();
    this.x = 2;
    super.x = 3;
    console.log(super.x); // undefined
    console.log(this.x); // 3
  }
}

let b = new B();
```

In the code above, assigning `3` to `super.x` is equivalent to assigning `3` to `this.x`. But when reading `super.x`, it reads `A.prototype.x`, so it returns `undefined`.

**If `super` is used as an object inside a static method, then `super` will point to the parent class, not the parent class's prototype object.**

```javascript
class Parent {
  static myMethod(msg) {
    console.log('static', msg);
  }

  myMethod(msg) {
    console.log('instance', msg);
  }
}

class Child extends Parent {
  static myMethod(msg) {
    super.myMethod(msg);
  }

  myMethod(msg) {
    super.myMethod(msg);
  }
}

Child.myMethod(1); // static 1

var child = new Child();
child.myMethod(2); // instance 2
```

In the code above, `super` points to the parent class inside the static method, and points to the parent class's prototype object inside the ordinary method.

In addition, **when a parent class method is called through `super` in a subclass's static method, the `this` inside the method points to the current subclass, not the subclass's instance.**

```javascript
class A {
  constructor() {
    this.x = 1;
  }
  static print() {
    console.log(this.x);
  }
}

class B extends A {
  constructor() {
    super();
    this.x = 2;
  }
  static m() {
    super.print();
  }
}

B.x = 3;
B.m() // 3
```

In the code above, inside the static method `B.m`, `super.print` points to the parent class's static method. The `this` inside this method points to `B`, not an instance of `B`.

Note that when using `super`, you must explicitly specify whether it is being used as a function or as an object, otherwise an error will be thrown.

```javascript
class A {}

class B extends A {
  constructor() {
    super();
    console.log(super); // error
  }
}
```

In the code above, the `super` in `console.log(super)` cannot be determined to be used as a function or as an object, so the JavaScript engine throws an error when parsing the code. In this case, if the data type of `super` can be clearly indicated, no error will be thrown.

```javascript
class A {}

class B extends A {
  constructor() {
    super();
    console.log(super.valueOf() instanceof B); // true
  }
}

let b = new B();
```

In the code above, `super.valueOf()` indicates that `super` is an object, so no error is thrown. At the same time, since `super` makes `this` point to the instance of `B`, `super.valueOf()` returns an instance of `B`.

Finally, since objects always inherit from other objects, the `super` keyword can be used in any object.

```javascript
var obj = {
  toString() {
    return "MyObject: " + super.toString();
  }
};

obj.toString(); // MyObject: [object Object]
```

## The prototype and \_\_proto\_\_ properties of a class

In most browsers' ES5 implementations, every object has a `__proto__` property pointing to the `prototype` property of its corresponding constructor. Class, being syntactic sugar for constructors, has both a `prototype` property and a `__proto__` property, so there are two inheritance chains simultaneously.

(1) The `__proto__` property of the subclass represents the inheritance of the constructor and always points to the parent class.

(2) The `__proto__` property of the subclass's `prototype` property represents the inheritance of methods and always points to the parent class's `prototype` property.

```javascript
class A {
}

class B extends A {
}

B.__proto__ === A // true
B.prototype.__proto__ === A.prototype // true
```

In the code above, the `__proto__` property of subclass `B` points to parent class `A`, and the `__proto__` property of subclass `B`'s `prototype` property points to the `prototype` property of parent class `A`.

This result is because class inheritance is implemented according to the following pattern.

```javascript
class A {
}

class B {
}

// instances of B inherit from instances of A
Object.setPrototypeOf(B.prototype, A.prototype);

// B inherits A's static properties
Object.setPrototypeOf(B, A);

const b = new B();
```

The chapter "Extensions to Objects" gave an implementation of the `Object.setPrototypeOf` method.

```javascript
Object.setPrototypeOf = function (obj, proto) {
  obj.__proto__ = proto;
  return obj;
}
```

Therefore, we get the result above.

```javascript
Object.setPrototypeOf(B.prototype, A.prototype);
// equivalent to
B.prototype.__proto__ = A.prototype;

Object.setPrototypeOf(B, A);
// equivalent to
B.__proto__ = A;
```

These two inheritance chains can be understood this way: as an object, the prototype (`__proto__` property) of the subclass (`B`) is the parent class (`A`); as a constructor, the prototype object (`prototype` property) of the subclass (`B`) is an instance of the parent class's prototype object (`prototype` property).

```javascript
B.prototype = Object.create(A.prototype);
// equivalent to
B.prototype.__proto__ = A.prototype;
```

The `extends` keyword can be followed by various types of values.

```javascript
class B extends A {
}
```

In the code above, as long as `A` is a function with a `prototype` property, it can be inherited by `B`. Since all functions have a `prototype` property (except the `Function.prototype` function), `A` can be any function.

Below, we discuss two situations. The first: a subclass inherits the `Object` class.

```javascript
class A extends Object {
}

A.__proto__ === Object // true
A.prototype.__proto__ === Object.prototype // true
```

In this case, `A` is essentially a copy of the constructor `Object`, and instances of `A` are instances of `Object`.

The second case: there is no inheritance at all.

```javascript
class A {
}

A.__proto__ === Function.prototype // true
A.prototype.__proto__ === Object.prototype // true
```

In this case, `A`, as a base class (i.e., with no inheritance), is an ordinary function, so it directly inherits from `Function.prototype`. However, calling `A` returns an empty object (i.e., an `Object` instance), so `A.prototype.__proto__` points to the `prototype` property of the constructor (`Object`).

### The \_\_proto\_\_ property of an instance

The `__proto__` property of the `__proto__` property of a subclass instance points to the `__proto__` property of the parent class instance. In other words, the prototype of the subclass's prototype is the parent class's prototype.

```javascript
var p1 = new Point(2, 3);
var p2 = new ColorPoint(2, 3, 'red');

p2.__proto__ === p1.__proto__ // false
p2.__proto__.__proto__ === p1.__proto__ // true
```

In the code above, `ColorPoint` inherits from `Point`, causing the prototype of the former's prototype to be the latter's prototype.

Therefore, the behavior of the parent class instance can be modified through the subclass instance's `__proto__.__proto__` property.

```javascript
p2.__proto__.__proto__.printName = function () {
  console.log('Ha');
};

p1.printName() // "Ha"
```

The code above adds a method to the `Point` class via the `ColorPoint` instance `p2`, and the result affects the `Point` instance `p1`.

## Inheritance of native constructors

Native constructors are the constructors built into the language, usually used to generate data structures. ECMAScript's native constructors roughly include the following.

- Boolean()
- Number()
- String()
- Array()
- Date()
- Function()
- RegExp()
- Error()
- Object()

In the past, these native constructors could not be inherited; for example, you could not define a subclass of `Array` yourself.

```javascript
function MyArray() {
  Array.apply(this, arguments);
}

MyArray.prototype = Object.create(Array.prototype, {
  constructor: {
    value: MyArray,
    writable: true,
    configurable: true,
    enumerable: true
  }
});
```

The code above defines a `MyArray` class that inherits from Array. However, this class's behavior is completely inconsistent with `Array`.

```javascript
var colors = new MyArray();
colors[0] = "red";
colors.length  // 0

colors.length = 0;
colors[0]  // "red"
```

The reason this happens is that the subclass cannot obtain the native constructor's internal properties, neither through `Array.apply()` nor by assigning to the prototype object. The native constructor ignores the `this` passed in via the `apply` method, which means the native constructor's `this` cannot be bound, resulting in the inability to access internal properties.

ES5 first creates the subclass's instance object `this`, then adds the parent class's properties onto the subclass. Since the parent class's internal properties cannot be obtained, native constructors cannot be inherited. For example, the `Array` constructor has an internal property `[[DefineOwnProperty]]`, used to update the `length` property when defining new properties. This internal property cannot be obtained in the subclass, causing the subclass's `length` property to behave abnormally.

In the following example, we want an ordinary object to inherit from the `Error` object.

```javascript
var e = {};

Object.getOwnPropertyNames(Error.call(e))
// [ 'stack' ]

Object.getOwnPropertyNames(e)
// []
```

In the code above, we want to use the `Error.call(e)` syntax to give the ordinary object `e` the instance properties of the `Error` object. However, `Error.call()` completely ignores the first argument passed in, and instead returns a new object, while `e` itself does not change at all. This proves that the `Error.call(e)` syntax cannot inherit native constructors.

ES6 allows defining subclasses that inherit native constructors, because ES6 first creates the parent class's instance object `this`, and then modifies `this` with the subclass's constructor, so that all the behaviors of the parent class can be inherited. Below is an example of inheriting `Array`.

```javascript
class MyArray extends Array {
  constructor(...args) {
    super(...args);
  }
}

var arr = new MyArray();
arr[0] = 12;
arr.length // 1

arr.length = 0;
arr[0] // undefined
```

The code above defines a `MyArray` class that inherits the `Array` constructor, so array instances can be generated from `MyArray`. This means ES6 can define subclasses of native data structures (such as `Array`, `String`, etc.), which ES5 could not do.

This example also shows that the `extends` keyword can be used not only to inherit classes but also to inherit native constructors. Therefore, you can define your own data structures based on native data structures. Below is the definition of an array with versioning functionality.

```javascript
class VersionedArray extends Array {
  constructor() {
    super();
    this.history = [[]];
  }
  commit() {
    this.history.push(this.slice());
  }
  revert() {
    this.splice(0, this.length, ...this.history[this.history.length - 1]);
  }
}

var x = new VersionedArray();

x.push(1);
x.push(2);
x // [1, 2]
x.history // [[]]

x.commit();
x.history // [[], [1, 2]]

x.push(3);
x // [1, 2, 3]
x.history // [[], [1, 2]]

x.revert();
x // [1, 2]
```

In the code above, `VersionedArray` uses the `commit` method to generate a version snapshot of its current state and store it in the `history` property. The `revert` method is used to reset the array to the most recently saved version. Apart from this, `VersionedArray` is still an ordinary array, and all native array methods can be called on it.

Below is an example of a custom `Error` subclass, which can be used to customize the behavior when reporting errors.

```javascript
class ExtendableError extends Error {
  constructor(message) {
    super();
    this.message = message;
    this.stack = (new Error()).stack;
    this.name = this.constructor.name;
  }
}

class MyError extends ExtendableError {
  constructor(m) {
    super(m);
  }
}

var myerror = new MyError('ll');
myerror.message // "ll"
myerror instanceof Error // true
myerror.name // "MyError"
myerror.stack
// Error
//     at MyError.ExtendableError
//     ...
```

Note that subclasses inheriting from `Object` have a [behavioral difference](http://stackoverflow.com/questions/36203614/super-does-not-pass-arguments-when-instantiating-a-class-extended-from-object).

```javascript
class NewObj extends Object{
  constructor(){
    super(...arguments);
  }
}
var o = new NewObj({attr: true});
o.attr === true  // false
```

In the code above, `NewObj` inherits from `Object`, but it cannot pass arguments to the parent class `Object` through the `super` method. This is because ES6 changed the behavior of the `Object` constructor: once it detects that the `Object` method is not called in the form of `new Object()`, ES6 specifies that the `Object` constructor will ignore the arguments.

## Implementation of the Mixin pattern

Mixin refers to combining multiple objects into a new object that has the interfaces of each of its constituent members. Its simplest implementation is as follows.

```javascript
const a = {
  a: 'a'
};
const b = {
  b: 'b'
};
const c = {...a, ...b}; // {a: 'a', b: 'b'}
```

In the code above, the `c` object is a combination of the `a` object and the `b` object, having the interfaces of both.

Below is a more complete implementation that "mixes in" the interfaces of multiple classes into another class.

```javascript
function mix(...mixins) {
  class Mix {
    constructor() {
      for (let mixin of mixins) {
        copyProperties(this, new mixin()); // copy instance properties
      }
    }
  }

  for (let mixin of mixins) {
    copyProperties(Mix, mixin); // copy static properties
    copyProperties(Mix.prototype, mixin.prototype); // copy prototype properties
  }

  return Mix;
}

function copyProperties(target, source) {
  for (let key of Reflect.ownKeys(source)) {
    if ( key !== 'constructor'
      && key !== 'prototype'
      && key !== 'name'
    ) {
      let desc = Object.getOwnPropertyDescriptor(source, key);
      Object.defineProperty(target, key, desc);
    }
  }
}
```

The `mix` function in the code above can combine multiple objects into a single class. When using it, you just need to inherit this class.

```javascript
class DistributedEdit extends mix(Loggable, Serializable) {
  // ...
}
```
