---
title: Module Syntax
date: 2020-02-09 16:00:29
permalink: /pages/efe2fb04eb8ac5fb
author: 阮一峰
categories:
  - ES6 Tutorial Notes
tags:
  - ES6
---
# Module Syntax

## Overview

Historically, JavaScript never had a module system, so there was no way to split a large program into smaller, interdependent files and then assemble them together using a simple approach. Other languages all have this capability, for example Ruby's `require`, Python's `import`, and even CSS has `@import`, but JavaScript had no support of this kind at all, which posed a huge obstacle to developing large and complex projects.
<!-- more -->
Before ES6, the community devised several module loading solutions, the two main ones being CommonJS and AMD. The former is used on the server, the latter in the browser. ES6 implemented module functionality at the level of the language standard, and did so quite simply, fully capable of replacing the CommonJS and AMD specifications and becoming a universal module solution for both browsers and servers.

The design philosophy of ES6 modules is to be as static as possible, so that the module dependencies, as well as the input and output variables, can be determined at compile time. CommonJS and AMD modules can only determine these things at runtime. For example, a CommonJS module is an object, and you must look up object properties when importing.

```javascript
// CommonJS module
let { stat, exists, readFile } = require('fs');

// Equivalent to
let _fs = require('fs');
let stat = _fs.stat;
let exists = _fs.exists;
let readfile = _fs.readfile;
```

The essence of the code above is to load the `fs` module as a whole (i.e. load all of `fs`'s methods), generate an object (`_fs`), and then read 3 methods from this object. **This kind of loading is called "runtime loading"**, because the object can only be obtained at runtime, which makes it completely impossible to do "static optimization" at compile time.

An ES6 module is not an object; instead, you explicitly specify the code to output using the `export` command, and then import it using the `import` command.

```javascript
// ES6 module
import { stat, exists, readFile } from 'fs';
```

The essence of the code above is to load 3 methods from the `fs` module, without loading the other methods. **This kind of loading is called "compile-time loading" or static loading**, **meaning ES6 can complete module loading at compile time,** which is more efficient than the loading approach of CommonJS modules. Of course, this also means you cannot reference the ES6 module itself, because it is not an object.

Because ES6 modules are loaded at compile time, static analysis becomes possible. With it, you can further broaden the syntax of JavaScript, for example introducing macros and type checking (type systems), features that can only be implemented through static analysis.

In addition to the various benefits brought by static loading, ES6 modules also have the following advantages.

- The `UMD` module format is no longer needed; in the future both servers and browsers will support the ES6 module format. Currently, this has actually already been achieved through various tooling libraries.
- New browser APIs in the future can be provided in module format, and no longer have to be made into global variables or properties of the `navigator` object.
- Objects are no longer needed as namespaces (such as the `Math` object); in the future these features can be provided through modules.

This chapter introduces the syntax of ES6 modules. The next chapter introduces how to load ES6 modules in browsers and in Node.

## Strict Mode

**ES6 modules automatically use strict mode**, regardless of whether or not you add `"use strict";` at the top of the module.

Strict mode mainly has the following restrictions.

- Variables must be declared before they are used
- Function parameters cannot have properties with the same name, otherwise an error is thrown
- The `with` statement cannot be used
- You cannot assign to read-only properties, otherwise an error is thrown
- You cannot use a leading 0 to denote an octal number, otherwise an error is thrown
- You cannot delete non-deletable properties, otherwise an error is thrown
- You cannot delete a variable with `delete prop`, which throws an error; you can only delete a property with `delete global[prop]`
- `eval` does not introduce variables into its enclosing scope
- `eval` and `arguments` cannot be reassigned
- `arguments` does not automatically reflect changes to the function parameters
- `arguments.callee` cannot be used
- `arguments.caller` cannot be used
- `this` is forbidden to point to the global object
- You cannot use `fn.caller` and `fn.arguments` to obtain the call stack of a function
- Additional reserved words have been added (such as `protected`, `static`, and `interface`)

All of the restrictions above must be obeyed by modules. Since strict mode was introduced in ES5 and is not part of ES6, please refer to relevant ES5 books; this book will not introduce it in detail.

Among these, you especially need to pay attention to the restriction on `this`. In ES6 modules, the top-level `this` points to `undefined`, meaning you should not use `this` in top-level code.

## The export Command

Module functionality is mainly composed of two commands: `export` and `import`. The `export` command is used to define a module's external interface, and the `import` command is used to import functionality provided by other modules.

**A module is an independent file. All variables inside that file are inaccessible from the outside. If you want the outside to be able to read a certain variable inside the module, you must use the `export` keyword to output that variable**. Below is a JS file that uses the `export` command to output variables.

```javascript
// profile.js
export var firstName = 'Michael';
export var lastName = 'Jackson';
export var year = 1958;
```

The code above is the `profile.js` file, which stores user information. ES6 treats it as a module, in which the `export` command outputs three variables to the outside.

Besides writing `export` as above, there is also another way.

```javascript
// profile.js
var firstName = 'Michael';
var lastName = 'Jackson';
var year = 1958;

export { firstName, lastName, year };
```

The code above uses curly braces after the `export` command to specify a group of variables to be output. It is equivalent to the previous approach (placing it directly before the `var` statement), but you should prefer using this approach. Because this way, you can see at a glance at the end of the script which variables are being output.

Besides outputting variables, the `export` command can also output functions or classes.

```javascript
export function multiply(x, y) {
  return x * y;
};
```

The code above outputs a function `multiply` to the outside.

Normally, the variable output by `export` keeps its original name, but **you can rename it using the `as` keyword**.

```javascript
function v1() { ... }
function v2() { ... }

export {
  v1 as streamV1,
  v2 as streamV2,
  v2 as streamLatestVersion
};
```

The code above uses the `as` keyword to rename the external interfaces of functions `v1` and `v2`. After renaming, `v2` can be output twice under different names.

It should be particularly noted that the `export` command defines an external interface, which must establish a one-to-one correspondence with a variable inside the module.

```javascript
// Error
export 1;

// Error
var m = 1;
export m;
```

Both ways of writing above will throw an error, because no external interface is provided. The first way directly outputs 1; the second way outputs 1 directly through the variable `m`. `1` is just a value, not an interface. The correct ways are as follows.

```javascript
// Approach one
export var m = 1;

// Approach two
var m = 1;
export {m};

// Approach three
var n = 1;
export {n as m};
```

All three approaches above are correct, defining the external interface `m`. Other scripts can obtain the value `1` through this interface. Their essence is that a one-to-one correspondence is established between the interface name and the variable inside the module.

Similarly, the output of `function` and `class` must also follow this style.

```javascript
// Error
function f() {}
export f;

// Correct
export function f() {};

// Correct
function f() {}
export {f};
```

In addition, the interface output by the `export` statement has a **dynamic binding relationship with its corresponding value**, meaning that through this interface you can obtain the real-time value inside the module.

```javascript
export var foo = 'bar';
setTimeout(() => foo = 'baz', 500);
```

The code above outputs the variable `foo` with the value `bar`, which becomes `baz` after 500 milliseconds.

This is completely different from the CommonJS specification. A CommonJS module outputs a cached copy of the value, with no dynamic updating; see the section "Implementation of Module Loading" later in the text for details.

Finally, the `export` command can appear anywhere in a module, as long as it is at the top level of the module. If it is inside a block scope, an error will be thrown, and the same is true for the `import` command in the next section. This is because being inside a conditional code block makes static optimization impossible, which goes against the original design intent of ES6 modules.

```javascript
function foo() {
  export default 'bar' // SyntaxError
}
foo()
```

In the code above, the `export` statement is placed inside a function, which results in an error.

## The import Command

After using the `export` command to define a module's external interface, other JS files can then load this module using the `import` command.

```javascript
// main.js
import { firstName, lastName, year } from './profile.js';

function setName(element) {
  element.textContent = firstName + ' ' + lastName;
}
```

The `import` command in the code above is used to load the `profile.js` file and import variables from it. The `import` command accepts a pair of curly braces, inside which you specify the names of the variables to import from the other module. The **variable names inside the curly braces must be the same as the names of the external interfaces of the imported module (`profile.js`).**

If you want to give the imported variable a new name, **the `import` command must use the `as` keyword to rename the imported variable.**

```javascript
import { lastName as surname } from './profile.js';
```

**The variables imported by the `import` command are all read-only**, because they are essentially imported interfaces. That is to say, you are not allowed to rewrite the interface inside the script that loads the module.

```javascript
import {a} from './xxx.js'

a = {}; // Syntax Error : 'a' is read-only;
```

In the code above, the script loads the variable `a`, and reassigning it will throw an error, because `a` is a read-only interface. However, **if `a` is an object, rewriting `a`'s properties is allowed**.

```javascript
import {a} from './xxx.js'

a.foo = 'hello'; // legal operation
```

In the code above, `a`'s properties can be successfully rewritten, and other modules can also read the rewritten value. However, this style is hard to debug, so **it is recommended that you treat all imported variables as completely read-only and not lightly change their properties**.

The `from` after `import` specifies the location of the module file, which can be a relative path or an absolute path, and **the `.js` suffix can be omitted**. **If it is just a module name without a path, then there must be a configuration file** to tell the JavaScript engine the location of that module.

```javascript
import {myMethod} from 'util';
```

In the code above, `util` is the module file name; since it has no path, you must use configuration to tell the engine how to obtain this module.

Note that **the `import` command has a hoisting effect; it is hoisted to the top of the entire module** and executed first.

```javascript
foo();

import { foo } from 'my_module';
```

The code above will not throw an error, because the execution of `import` happens before the call to `foo`. The essence of this behavior is that the `import` command is executed during the compilation phase, before the code runs.

Because `import` is statically executed, **you cannot use expressions and variables**, those syntactic structures whose results can only be obtained at runtime.

```javascript
// Error
import { 'f' + 'oo' } from 'my_module';

// Error
let module = 'my_module';
import { foo } from module;

// Error
if (x === 1) {
  import { foo } from 'module1';
} else {
  import { foo } from 'module2';
}
```

All three approaches above will throw an error, because they use expressions, variables, and `if` structures. During the static analysis phase, none of these syntactic forms can produce a value.

Finally, the `import` statement will execute the loaded module, so the following style is possible.

```javascript
import 'lodash';
```

The code above merely executes the `lodash` module without importing any value.

If the same `import` statement is repeatedly executed multiple times, it will only be executed once, not multiple times.

```javascript
import 'lodash';
import 'lodash';
```

The code above loads `lodash` twice, but it will only be executed once.

```javascript
import { foo } from 'my_module';
import { bar } from 'my_module';

// Equivalent to
import { foo, bar } from 'my_module';
```

In the code above, although `foo` and `bar` are loaded in two statements, they correspond to the same `my_module` instance. That is to say, the `import` statement is a Singleton pattern.

At the current stage, through Babel transpilation, CommonJS's `require` command and the ES6 module `import` command can be written within the same module, but it is best not to do so. Because `import` is executed during the static parsing phase, it is the earliest thing executed within a module. The following code may not give the expected result.

```javascript
require('core-js/modules/es6.symbol');
require('core-js/modules/es6.promise');
import React from 'React';
```

## Loading a Module as a Whole - (Asterisk *)

Besides specifying that a certain output value be loaded, you can also load the module as a whole, that is, use an asterisk (`*`) to specify an object onto which all output values are loaded.

Below is a `circle.js` file that outputs two methods, `area` and `circumference`.

```javascript
// circle.js

export function area(radius) {
  return Math.PI * radius * radius;
}

export function circumference(radius) {
  return 2 * Math.PI * radius;
}
```

Now, load this module.

```javascript
// main.js

import { area, circumference } from './circle';

console.log('Circle area: ' + area(4));
console.log('Circle circumference: ' + circumference(14));
```

The approach above specifies the methods to load one by one. The approach for loading the module as a whole is as follows.

```javascript
import * as circle from './circle';

console.log('Circle area: ' + circle.area(4));
console.log('Circle circumference: ' + circle.circumference(14));
```

Note that **the object onto which the module is loaded as a whole (in the example above, `circle`) should be statically analyzable, so changing it at runtime is not allowed**. The following styles are all not allowed.

```javascript
import * as circle from './circle';

// Both of the following two lines are not allowed
circle.foo = 'hello';
circle.area = function () {};
```

## The export default Command

As can be seen from the previous examples, when using the `import` command, the user needs to know the name of the variable or function to be loaded, otherwise it cannot be loaded. However, users certainly want to get started quickly and may not be willing to read the documentation to find out what properties and methods the module has.

To make things convenient for users, allowing them to load a module without reading the documentation, you need to use the **`export default` command to specify a default output for the module.**

```javascript
// export-default.js
export default function () {
  console.log('foo');
}
```

The code above is a module file `export-default.js`, whose default output is a function.

When other modules load this module, **the `import` command can give this anonymous function any name.**

```javascript
// import-default.js
import customName from './export-default';
customName(); // 'foo'
```

The `import` command in the code above can point to the method output by `export-default.js` using any name, and in this case you do not need to know the name of the function output by the original module. It should be noted that **in this case the `import` command is not followed by curly braces**.

The `export default` command can also be used before a non-anonymous function.

```javascript
// export-default.js
export default function foo() {
  console.log('foo');
}

// Or written as

function foo() {
  console.log('foo');
}

export default foo;
```

In the code above, **the function name `foo` of the `foo` function is invalid outside the module. When loaded, it is treated as if loading an anonymous function**.

Let's compare default output and normal output below.

```javascript
// First group
export default function crc32() { // output
  // ...
}

import crc32 from 'crc32'; // import

// Second group
export function crc32() { // output
  // ...
};

import {crc32} from 'crc32'; // import
```

In the two groups of code above, the first group uses `export default`, and the corresponding `import` statement does not need to use curly braces; the second group does not use `export default`, and the corresponding `import` statement needs to use curly braces.

The `export default` command is used to specify a module's default output. Clearly, **a module can only have one default output**, so the `export default` command can only be used once. That is why the import command does not need curly braces after it, because it can only uniquely correspond to the `export default` command.

**In essence, `export default` simply outputs a variable or method called `default`,** and then the system allows you to give it any name. So the following style is valid.

```javascript
// modules.js
function add(x, y) {
  return x * y;
}
export {add as default};
// Equivalent to
// export default add;

// app.js
import { default as foo } from 'modules';
// Equivalent to
// import foo from 'modules';
```

It is precisely because the `export default` command actually just outputs a variable called `default` that it cannot be followed by a variable declaration statement.

```javascript
// Correct
export var a = 1;

// Correct
var a = 1;
export default a;

// Wrong
export default var a = 1;
```

In the code above, the meaning of `export default a` is to assign the value of variable `a` to the variable `default`. So the last style will throw an error.

Similarly, because the essence of the `export default` command is to assign the value following it to the `default` variable, you can directly write a value after `export default`.

```javascript
// Correct
export default 42;

// Error
export 42;
```

In the code above, the latter statement throws an error because it does not specify an external interface, whereas the former statement specifies the external interface as `default`.

With the `export default` command, importing a module becomes very intuitive. Take importing the lodash module as an example.

```javascript
import _ from 'lodash';
```

If you want to import the default method and other interfaces at the same time in a single `import` statement, you can write it as follows.

```javascript
import _, { each, forEach } from 'lodash';
```

The `export` statement corresponding to the code above is as follows.

```javascript
export default function (obj) {
  // ···
}

export function each(obj, iterator, context) {
  // ···
}

export { each as forEach };
```

The last line of the code above means: expose the `forEach` interface, defaulting it to point to the `each` interface, that is, `forEach` and `each` point to the same method.

`export default` can also be used to output a class.

```javascript
// MyClass.js
export default class { ... }

// main.js
import MyClass from 'MyClass';
let o = new MyClass();
```

## Compound Syntax of export and import

If within a module you first import and then output the same module, the `import` statement can be written together with the `export` statement.

```javascript
export { foo, bar } from 'my_module';

// Can be simply understood as
import { foo, bar } from 'my_module';
export { foo, bar };
```

In the code above, the `export` and `import` statements can be combined and written on one line. But it should be noted that after writing them on one line, `foo` and `bar` are not actually imported into the current module; this is just equivalent to forwarding these two interfaces to the outside, with the result that the current module cannot directly use `foo` and `bar`.

Renaming a module's interfaces and outputting them as a whole can also use this style.

```javascript
// Interface renaming
export { foo as myFoo } from 'my_module';

// Outputting as a whole
export * from 'my_module';
```

The style for the default interface is as follows.

```javascript
export { default } from 'foo';
```

The style for changing a named interface into a default interface is as follows.

```javascript
export { es6 as default } from './someModule';

// Equivalent to
import { es6 } from './someModule';
export default es6;
```

Similarly, a default interface can also be renamed into a named interface.

```javascript
export { default as es6 } from './someModule';
```

The following three `import` statements do not have corresponding compound forms.

```javascript
import * as someIdentifier from "someModule";
import someIdentifier from "someModule";
import someIdentifier, { namedIdentifier } from "someModule";
```

To achieve symmetry of form, there is now a [proposal](https://github.com/leebyron/ecmascript-export-default-from) suggesting adding these three compound forms.

```javascript
export * as someIdentifier from "someModule";
export someIdentifier from "someModule";
export someIdentifier, { namedIdentifier } from "someModule";
```

## Module Inheritance

Modules can also inherit from each other.

Suppose there is a `circleplus` module that inherits from the `circle` module.

```javascript
// circleplus.js

export * from 'circle';
export var e = 2.71828182846;
export default function(x) {
  return Math.exp(x);
}
```

The `export *` in the code above means to re-output all the properties and methods of the `circle` module. Note that the `export *` command ignores the `default` method of the `circle` module. Then, the code above also outputs a custom `e` variable and a default method.

In this case, you can also rename a property or method of `circle` before outputting it.

```javascript
// circleplus.js

export { area as circleArea } from 'circle';
```

The code above means: only output the `area` method of the `circle` module, and rename it to `circleArea`.

The style for loading the module above is as follows.

```javascript
// main.js

import * as math from 'circleplus';
import exp from 'circleplus';
console.log(exp(math.e));
```

The `import exp` in the code above means: load the default method of the `circleplus` module as the `exp` method.

## Cross-Module Constants

When introducing the `const` command, this book mentioned that a constant declared with `const` is only valid in the current code block. If you want to set a cross-module constant (i.e. across multiple files), or in other words have a value shared by multiple modules, you can use the following style.

```javascript
// constants.js module
export const A = 1;
export const B = 3;
export const C = 4;

// test1.js module
import * as constants from './constants';
console.log(constants.A); // 1
console.log(constants.B); // 3

// test2.js module
import {A, B} from './constants';
console.log(A); // 1
console.log(B); // 3
```

If there are a great many constants to use, you can create a dedicated `constants` directory, write various constants in different files, and save them under that directory.

```javascript
// constants/db.js
export const db = {
  url: 'http://my.couchdbserver.local:5984',
  admin_username: 'admin',
  admin_password: 'admin password'
};

// constants/user.js
export const users = ['root', 'admin', 'staff', 'ceo', 'chief', 'moderator'];
```

Then, merge the constants output by these files in `index.js`.

```javascript
// constants/index.js
export {db} from './db';
export {users} from './users';
```

When using them, you just need to load `index.js` directly.

```javascript
// script.js
import {db, users} from './constants/index';
```

## import()

### Introduction

As introduced earlier, the `import` command is statically analyzed by the JavaScript engine and executed before the other statements in the module (calling the `import` command a "binding" is actually more appropriate). So the following code will throw an error.

```javascript
// Error
if (x === 2) {
  import MyModual from './myModual';
}
```

In the code above, the engine processes the `import` statement at compile time, and at this point it will not analyze or execute the `if` statement, so placing the `import` statement inside an `if` code block is meaningless and will therefore throw a syntax error rather than a runtime error. That is to say, the `import` and `export` commands can only be at the top level of a module, not inside a code block (for example, inside an `if` block, or inside a function).

This kind of design is certainly beneficial for the compiler to improve efficiency, but it also makes it impossible to load modules at runtime. Syntactically, conditional loading is simply impossible. If the `import` command is to replace Node's `require` method, this creates an obstacle. Because `require` loads modules at runtime, the `import` command cannot replace `require`'s dynamic loading capability.

```javascript
const path = './' + fileName;
const myModual = require(path);
```

The statement above is dynamic loading; which module `require` ends up loading is only known at runtime. The `import` command cannot do this.

**The [ES2020 proposal](https://github.com/tc39/proposal-dynamic-import) introduces the `import()` function, which supports dynamically loading modules.**

```javascript
import(specifier)
```

In the code above, the parameter `specifier` of the `import` function specifies the location of the module to be loaded. Whatever parameters the `import` command can accept, the `import()` function can accept, and the main difference between the two is that the latter is dynamic loading.

**`import()` returns a Promise object**. Below is an example.

```javascript
const main = document.querySelector('main');

import(`./section-modules/${someVariable}.js`)
  .then(module => {
    module.loadPageInto(main);
  })
  .catch(err => {
    main.textContent = err.message;
  });
```

**The `import()` function can be used anywhere, not just in modules; non-module scripts can also use it**. It is executed at runtime, meaning that whenever execution reaches this statement, it will load the specified module. In addition, the `import()` function has no static binding relationship with the module it loads, which is another difference from the `import` statement. `import()` is similar to Node's `require` method, the main difference being that the former loads asynchronously while the latter loads synchronously.

### Use Cases

Below are some use cases for `import()`.

(1) On-demand loading.

`import()` can load a certain module only when it is needed.

```javascript
button.addEventListener('click', event => {
  import('./dialogBox.js')
  .then(dialogBox => {
    dialogBox.open();
  })
  .catch(error => {
    /* Error handling */
  })
});
```

In the code above, the `import()` method is placed inside the listener function for the `click` event, so this module is only loaded when the user clicks the button.

(2) Conditional loading

`import()` can be placed in an `if` code block to load different modules depending on the situation.

```javascript
if (condition) {
  import('moduleA').then(...);
} else {
  import('moduleB').then(...);
}
```

In the code above, if the condition is met, module A is loaded, otherwise module B is loaded.

(3) Dynamic module paths

`import()` allows module paths to be generated dynamically.

```javascript
import(f())
.then(...);
```

In the code above, different modules are loaded depending on the return result of the function `f`.

### Points to Note

After `import()` successfully loads a module, this module is passed as an object to be the parameter of the `then` method. Therefore, you can use the object destructuring assignment syntax to obtain the output interfaces.

```javascript
import('./myModule.js')
.then(({export1, export2}) => {
  // ...·
});
```

In the code above, `export1` and `export2` are both output interfaces of `myModule.js`, and can be obtained through destructuring.

If the module has a `default` output interface, it can be obtained directly via the parameter.

```javascript
import('./myModule.js')
.then(myModule => {
  console.log(myModule.default);
});
```

The code above can also use the named import form.

```javascript
import('./myModule.js')
.then(({default: theDefault}) => {
  console.log(theDefault);
});
```

If you want to load multiple modules at the same time, you can use the following style.

```javascript
Promise.all([
  import('./module1.js'),
  import('./module2.js'),
  import('./module3.js'),
])
.then(([module1, module2, module3]) => {
   ···
});
```

`import()` can also be used inside an async function.

```javascript
async function main() {
  const myModule = await import('./myModule.js');
  const {export1, export2} = await import('./myModule.js');
  const [module1, module2, module3] =
    await Promise.all([
      import('./module1.js'),
      import('./module2.js'),
      import('./module3.js'),
    ]);
}
main();
```
