---
title: Mixin
date: 2020-02-09 16:00:30
permalink: /pages/6a8e2dc558da1b39
author: 阮一峰
categories:
  - "《ES6 Tutorial》Notes"
tags:
  - ES6
---
# Mixin

The JavaScript language is designed for single inheritance, meaning a subclass can only inherit from one parent class and is not allowed to inherit from multiple parent classes. This design ensures that the hierarchy of object inheritance is tree-shaped rather than a complex [mesh structure](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Multiple_inheritance#The_diamond_problem).
<!-- more -->
However, this greatly reduces the flexibility of programming. Because in actual development, it is sometimes unavoidable that a subclass needs to inherit from multiple parent classes. For example, a "cat" can inherit from "mammal" and also from "pet".

Various single-inheritance programming languages have different solutions for multiple inheritance. For instance, in Java a subclass can also only inherit from one parent class, but it is additionally allowed to implement multiple interfaces, thereby indirectly achieving multiple inheritance. An interface, like a parent class, is also a class, except that it only defines the interface (method signatures) and does not define the implementation, which is why it is also called an "abstract class". Every method inherited from an interface must have its own implementation defined, otherwise an error is raised. This avoids the biggest problem of multiple inheritance: the naming collision of methods with the same name from multiple parent classes.

The JavaScript language did not adopt the interface approach; instead, it introduces methods from other classes through delegation.

```javascript
var Enumerable_first = function () {
  this.first = function () {
    return this[0];
  };
};

var list = ["foo", "bar", "baz"];
Enumerable_first.call(list); // explicit delegation
list.first() // "foo"
```

In the code above, `list` is an array that does not have a `first` method of its own. Through the `call` method, we can bind the methods inside `Enumerable_first` to `list`, so that `list` then has a `first` method. This is called "delegation": the `list` object delegates to the `first` method of `Enumerable_first`.

## Meaning

The name Mixin comes from ice cream: mixing other flavors into a base-flavor ice cream is called a Mix-in.

It allows you to inject some code into a class, so that the functionality of one class can be "mixed in" to another class. It is essentially a solution to multiple inheritance, but it avoids the complexity of multiple inheritance and is beneficial for code reuse.

A Mixin is just a normal class that defines not only the interface but also the implementation of the interface.

A subclass achieves the goal of multiple inheritance by binding methods onto the `this` object.

Many libraries provide Mixin functionality. The following uses Lodash as an example.

```javascript
function vowels(string) {
  return /[aeiou]/i.test(this.value);
}

var obj = { value: 'hello' };
_.mixin(obj, {vowels: vowels})
obj.vowels() // true
```

The code above uses Lodash's `_.mixin` method to let the `obj` object inherit the `vowels` method.

Underscore's similar method is `_.extend`.

```javascript
var Person = function (fName, lName) {
  this.firstName = fName;
  this.lastName = lName;
}

var sam = new Person('Sam', 'Lowry');

var NameMixin = {
  fullName: function () {
    return this.firstName + ' ' + this.lastName;
  },
  rename: function(first, last) {
    this.firstName = first;
    this.lastName = last;
    return this;
  }
};
_.extend(Person.prototype, NameMixin);
sam.rename('Samwise', 'Gamgee');
sam.fullName() // "Samwise Gamgee"
```

The code above uses the `_.extend` method to mix the `NameMixin` class into the `sam` object (more precisely, into its prototype object `Person.prototype`).

The implementation of the `extend` method is very simple.

```javascript
function extend(destination, source) {
  for (var k in source) {
    if (source.hasOwnProperty(k)) {
      destination[k] = source[k];
    }
  }
  return destination;
}
```

The code above adds all methods of the `source` object to the `destination` object.

## Trait

Trait is another solution for multiple inheritance. It is very similar to Mixin, but there are some subtle differences.

- A Mixin can contain state, whereas a Trait does not, meaning that the methods inside a Trait are independent of one another and can be included linearly. For example, `Trait1` contains methods `A` and `B`, and `Trait2` inherits from `Trait1` while also containing its own method `C`; this is in effect equivalent to directly containing methods `A`, `B`, and `C`.
- For collisions of methods with the same name, Mixin includes resolution rules, whereas Trait raises an error.
