---
title: Destructuring Assignment of Variables
date: 2020-02-09 16:00:29
permalink: /pages/b1ab10a62f7564da
author: 阮一峰
categories:
  - ES6 Tutorial Notes
tags:
  - ES6
---
# Destructuring Assignment of Variables

## Array Destructuring Assignment

### Basic Usage

ES6 allows **extracting values from arrays and objects and assigning them to variables according to a certain pattern, which is known as destructuring** (Destructuring).

Previously, assigning values to variables could only be done by specifying values directly.

```javascript
let a = 1;
let b = 2;
let c = 3;
```
<!-- more -->
ES6 allows the following syntax.

```javascript
let [a, b, c] = [1, 2, 3];
```

The above code shows that values can be extracted from arrays and **assigned to variables according to their corresponding positions**.

Essentially, this syntax is "pattern matching" -- as long as the patterns on both sides of the equals sign are the same, the variable on the left will be assigned the corresponding value. Here are some examples of destructuring with nested arrays.

```javascript
let [foo, [[bar], baz]] = [1, [[2], 3]];
foo // 1
bar // 2
baz // 3

let [ , , third] = ["foo", "bar", "baz"];
third // "baz"

let [x, , y] = [1, 2, 3];
x // 1
y // 3

let [head, ...tail] = [1, 2, 3, 4];
head // 1
tail // [2, 3, 4]

let [x, y, ...z] = ['a'];
x // "a"
y // undefined
z // []
```

If destructuring fails, the variable's value equals `undefined`.

```javascript
let [foo] = [];
let [bar, foo] = [1];
```

Both cases above are failed destructurings, and `foo`'s value will be `undefined` in both.

Another case is **incomplete destructuring**, where the pattern on the left side of the equals sign only matches part of the array on the right side. In this case, destructuring can still succeed.

```javascript
let [x, y] = [1, 2, 3];
x // 1
y // 2

let [a, [b], d] = [1, [2, 3], 4];
a // 1
b // 2
d // 4
```

Both examples above are incomplete destructurings, but they succeed.

If the right side of the equals sign is not an array (or more precisely, not an iterable structure, see the Iterator chapter), an error will be thrown.

```javascript
// All throw errors
let [foo] = 1;
let [foo] = false;
let [foo] = NaN;
let [foo] = undefined;
let [foo] = null;
let [foo] = {};
```

The above statements all throw errors because the values on the right side either don't have an Iterator interface when converted to objects (the first five expressions), or inherently lack an Iterator interface (the last expression).

For Set structures, array destructuring assignment can also be used.

```javascript
let [x, y, z] = new Set(['a', 'b', 'c']);
x // "a"
```

In fact, as long as a data structure has an Iterator interface, array-style destructuring assignment can be used.

```javascript
function* fibs() {
  let a = 0;
  let b = 1;
  while (true) {
    yield a;
    [a, b] = [b, a + b];
  }
}

let [first, second, third, fourth, fifth, sixth] = fibs();
sixth // 5
```

In the above code, `fibs` is a Generator function (see the Generator Functions chapter), which natively has an Iterator interface. The destructuring assignment will sequentially get values from this interface.

### Default Values

Destructuring assignment allows specifying default values.

```javascript
let [foo = true] = [];
foo // true

let [x, y = 'b'] = ['a']; // x='a', y='b'
let [x, y = 'b'] = ['a', undefined]; // x='a', y='b'
```

Note that ES6 internally uses the strict equality operator (`===`) to determine whether a position has a value. Therefore, **a default value only takes effect when an array member is strictly equal to `undefined`**.

```javascript
let [x = 1] = [undefined];
x // 1

let [x = 1] = [null];
x // null
```

In the above code, if an array member is `null`, the default value does not take effect because `null` is not strictly equal to `undefined`.

If a default value is an expression, that expression is lazily evaluated -- it is only evaluated when needed.

```javascript
function f() {
  console.log('aaa');
}

let [x = f()] = [1];
```

In the above code, because `x` can get a value, the function `f` is never executed. The above code is actually equivalent to the following.

```javascript
let x;
if ([1][0] === undefined) {
  x = f();
} else {
  x = [1][0];
}
```

Default values can reference other variables from the destructuring assignment, but those variables must have already been declared.

```javascript
let [x = 1, y = x] = [];     // x=1; y=1
let [x = 1, y = x] = [2];    // x=2; y=2
let [x = 1, y = x] = [1, 2]; // x=1; y=2
let [x = y, y = 1] = [];     // ReferenceError: y is not defined
```

The last expression above throws an error because when `x` uses `y` as its default value, `y` has not been declared yet.

## Object Destructuring Assignment

### Introduction

Destructuring can be used not only for arrays but also for objects.

```javascript
let { foo, bar } = { foo: 'aaa', bar: 'bbb' };
foo // "aaa"
bar // "bbb"
```

There is one important difference between object and array destructuring. Array elements are ordered, and the variable's value is determined by its position; object properties have no order, so the variable must have the same name as the property to get the correct value.

```javascript
let { bar, foo } = { foo: 'aaa', bar: 'bbb' };
foo // "aaa"
bar // "bbb"

let { baz } = { foo: 'aaa', bar: 'bbb' };
baz // undefined
```

In the first example above, the order of the two variables on the left side of the equals sign is different from the order of the two identically named properties on the right side, but this has no effect on the values obtained. In the second example, the variable has no corresponding identically named property, so it cannot get a value and ends up as `undefined`.

If destructuring fails, the variable's value equals `undefined`.

```javascript
let {foo} = {bar: 'baz'};
foo // undefined
```

In the above code, the object on the right side of the equals sign has no `foo` property, so the variable `foo` cannot get a value and equals `undefined`.

Object destructuring assignment makes it very convenient to assign existing object methods to variables.

```javascript
// Example 1
let { log, sin, cos } = Math;

// Example 2
const { log } = console;
log('hello') // hello
```

In example 1 above, the logarithm, sine, and cosine methods of the `Math` object are assigned to corresponding variables, making them much more convenient to use. Example 2 assigns `console.log` to the variable `log`.

If the variable name and property name are different, you must write it as follows.

```javascript
let { foo: baz } = { foo: 'aaa', bar: 'bbb' };
baz // "aaa"

let obj = { first: 'hello', last: 'world' };
let { first: f, last: l } = obj;
f // 'hello'
l // 'world'
```

This actually shows that object destructuring assignment is shorthand for the following form (see the Object Extensions chapter).

```javascript
let { foo: foo, bar: bar } = { foo: 'aaa', bar: 'bbb' };
```

In other words, the internal mechanism of object destructuring assignment is to first find the property with the same name, then assign it to the corresponding variable. What actually gets assigned is the latter, not the former.

```javascript
let { foo: baz } = { foo: 'aaa', bar: 'bbb' };
baz // "aaa"
foo // error: foo is not defined
```

In the above code, `foo` is the matching pattern and `baz` is the variable. What actually gets assigned is the variable `baz`, not the pattern `foo`.

Like arrays, destructuring can also be used with nested object structures.

```javascript
let obj = {
  p: [
    'Hello',
    { y: 'World' }
  ]
};

let { p: [x, { y }] } = obj;
x // "Hello"
y // "World"
```

Note that `p` here is a pattern, not a variable, so it is not assigned a value. If you also want `p` to be assigned as a variable, you can write it as follows.

```javascript
let obj = {
  p: [
    'Hello',
    { y: 'World' }
  ]
};

let { p, p: [x, { y }] } = obj;
x // "Hello"
y // "World"
p // ["Hello", {y: "World"}]
```

Here is another example.

```javascript
const node = {
  loc: {
    start: {
      line: 1,
      column: 5
    }
  }
};

let { loc, loc: { start }, loc: { start: { line }} } = node;
line // 1
loc  // Object {start: Object}
start // Object {line: 1, column: 5}
```

The above code has three destructuring assignments, for the `loc`, `start`, and `line` properties respectively. Note that in the last destructuring assignment for the `line` property, only `line` is a variable; `loc` and `start` are patterns, not variables.

Here is a nested assignment example.

```javascript
let obj = {};
let arr = [];

({ foo: obj.prop, bar: arr[0] } = { foo: 123, bar: true });

obj // {prop:123}
arr // [true]
```

If the destructuring pattern is a nested object and the parent property of the child object does not exist, an error will be thrown.

```javascript
// Error
let {foo: {bar}} = {baz: 'baz'};
```

In the above code, the `foo` property on the left side of the equals sign corresponds to a child object. Destructuring the `bar` property of this child object will throw an error. The reason is simple: `foo` is `undefined` at this point, and trying to get a child property from it throws an error.

Note that object destructuring assignment can access inherited properties.

```javascript
const obj1 = {};
const obj2 = { foo: 'bar' };
Object.setPrototypeOf(obj1, obj2);

const { foo } = obj1;
foo // "bar"
```

In the above code, the prototype of object `obj1` is `obj2`. The `foo` property is not `obj1`'s own property but is inherited from `obj2`. Destructuring assignment can access this property.

### Default Values

Object destructuring can also specify default values.

```javascript
var {x = 3} = {};
x // 3

var {x, y = 5} = {x: 1};
x // 1
y // 5

var {x: y = 3} = {};
y // 3

var {x: y = 3} = {x: 5};
y // 5

var { message: msg = 'Something went wrong' } = {};
msg // "Something went wrong"
```

The condition for a default value to take effect is that the object's property value is strictly equal to `undefined`.

```javascript
var {x = 3} = {x: undefined};
x // 3

var {x = 3} = {x: null};
x // null
```

In the above code, the property `x` equals `null`. Since `null` is not strictly equal to `undefined`, it is a valid assignment, and the default value `3` does not take effect.

### Important Notes

(1) If you want to use an already declared variable for destructuring assignment, you must be very careful.

```javascript
// Wrong approach
let x;
{x} = {x: 1};
// SyntaxError: syntax error
```

The above syntax throws an error because the JavaScript engine interprets `{x}` as a code block, causing a syntax error. The only way to solve this is to avoid placing the curly braces at the beginning of a line, preventing JavaScript from interpreting them as a code block.

```javascript
// Correct approach
let x;
({x} = {x: 1});
```

The above code wraps the entire destructuring assignment statement in parentheses, allowing it to execute correctly. See below for the relationship between parentheses and destructuring assignment.

(2) Destructuring assignment allows the pattern on the left side of the equals sign to contain no variable names at all. This enables writing very peculiar assignment expressions.

```javascript
({} = [true, false]);
({} = 'abc');
({} = []);
```

The above expressions are meaningless but are syntactically valid and can be executed.

(3) Since arrays are essentially special objects, object property destructuring can be performed on arrays.

```javascript
let arr = [1, 2, 3];
let {0 : first, [arr.length - 1] : last} = arr;
first // 1
last // 3
```

The above code performs object destructuring on an array. The value at key `0` of array `arr` is `1`, and `[arr.length - 1]` is key `2`, with the corresponding value `3`. The bracket notation here is a "computed property name" (see the Object Extensions chapter).

## String Destructuring Assignment

Strings can also be destructured. This is because in this context, **the string is converted into an array-like object**.

```javascript
const [a, b, c, d, e] = 'hello';
a // "h"
b // "e"
c // "l"
d // "l"
e // "o"
```

Array-like objects have a `length` property, so you can also destructure this property.

```javascript
let {length : len} = 'hello';
len // 5
```

## Destructuring Assignment of Numbers and Booleans

**When destructuring assignment is performed, if the right side of the equals sign is a number or boolean, it will first be converted to an object.**

```javascript
let {toString: s} = 123;
s === Number.prototype.toString // true

let {toString: s} = true;
s === Boolean.prototype.toString // true
```

In the above code, the wrapper objects for both numbers and booleans have a `toString` property, so the variable `s` can get a value in both cases.

The rule for destructuring assignment is that if the value on the right side of the equals sign is not an object or array, it is first converted to an object. Since `undefined` and `null` cannot be converted to objects, destructuring assignment on them will throw an error.

```javascript
let { prop: x } = undefined; // TypeError
let { prop: y } = null; // TypeError
```

## Destructuring Assignment of Function Parameters

Function parameters can also use destructuring assignment.

```javascript
function add([x, y]){
  return x + y;
}

add([1, 2]); // 3
```

In the above code, the parameter of function `add` appears to be an array, but the moment the argument is passed in, the array parameter is destructured into variables `x` and `y`. For the code inside the function, the parameters they interact with are `x` and `y`.

Here is another example.

```javascript
[[1, 2], [3, 4]].map(([a, b]) => a + b);
// [ 3, 7 ]
```

Function parameter destructuring can also use default values.

```javascript
function move({x = 0, y = 0} = {}) {
  return [x, y];
}

move({x: 3, y: 8}); // [3, 8]
move({x: 3}); // [3, 0]
move({}); // [0, 0]
move(); // [0, 0]
```

In the above code, the parameter of function `move` is an object. By destructuring this object, the values of variables `x` and `y` are obtained. If destructuring fails, `x` and `y` take their default values.

Note that the following syntax produces different results.

```javascript
function move({x, y} = { x: 0, y: 0 }) {
  return [x, y];
}

move({x: 3, y: 8}); // [3, 8]
move({x: 3}); // [3, undefined]
move({}); // [undefined, undefined]
move(); // [0, 0]
```

The above code specifies default values for the parameters of function `move`, not for the variables `x` and `y`, which is why the results differ from the previous approach.

`undefined` triggers the default value of function parameters.

```javascript
[1, undefined, 3].map((x = 'yes') => x);
// [ 1, 'yes', 3 ]
```

## The Parentheses Problem

Although destructuring assignment is very convenient, parsing it is not easy. For the compiler, it is impossible to know from the start whether an expression is a pattern or an expression -- this can only be determined when (or if) the equals sign is reached.

This raises the question: what happens if parentheses appear in the pattern? The ES6 rule is that parentheses must not be used whenever they could cause ambiguity in destructuring.

However, this rule is not easy to distinguish in practice and can be quite troublesome to handle. Therefore, the recommendation is to avoid placing parentheses in patterns whenever possible.

### Cases Where Parentheses Cannot Be Used

The following three types of destructuring assignment must not use parentheses.

(1) Variable declaration statements

```javascript
// All throw errors
let [(a)] = [1];

let {x: (c)} = {};
let ({x: c}) = {};
let {(x: c)} = {};
let {(x): c} = {};

let { o: ({ p: p }) } = { o: { p: 2 } };
```

All 6 statements above throw errors because they are all variable declaration statements, and patterns cannot use parentheses.

(2) Function parameters

Function parameters are also variable declarations, so they cannot contain parentheses.

```javascript
// Error
function f([(z)]) { return z; }
// Error
function f([z,(x)]) { return x; }
```

(3) Patterns in assignment statements

```javascript
// All throw errors
({ p: a }) = { p: 42 };
([a]) = [5];
```

The above code wraps the entire pattern in parentheses, causing an error.

```javascript
// Error
[({ p: a }), { x: c }] = [{}, {}];
```

The above code wraps part of the pattern in parentheses, causing an error.

### Cases Where Parentheses Can Be Used

There is only one case where parentheses can be used: the non-pattern part of an assignment statement.

```javascript
[(b)] = [3]; // Correct
({ p: (d) } = {}); // Correct
[(parseInt.prop)] = [3]; // Correct
```

All three statements above can execute correctly because, first, they are all assignment statements, not declaration statements; and second, their parentheses are not part of the pattern. In the first statement, the pattern extracts the first member of the array, unrelated to the parentheses; in the second statement, the pattern is `p`, not `d`; the third statement has the same nature as the first.

## Practical Uses

Destructuring assignment of variables has many practical uses.

**(1) Swapping Variable Values**

```javascript
let x = 1;
let y = 2;

[x, y] = [y, x];
```

The above code swaps the values of variables `x` and `y`. This syntax is not only concise but also readable, with very clear semantics.

**(2) Returning Multiple Values from a Function**

A function can only return one value. To return multiple values, they must be placed in an array or object. With destructuring assignment, extracting these values becomes very convenient.

```javascript
// Returning an array

function example() {
  return [1, 2, 3];
}
let [a, b, c] = example();

// Returning an object

function example() {
  return {
    foo: 1,
    bar: 2
  };
}
let { foo, bar } = example();
```

**(3) Defining Function Parameters**

Destructuring assignment makes it easy to map a set of parameters to variable names.

```javascript
// Parameters are an ordered set of values
function f([x, y, z]) { ... }
f([1, 2, 3]);

// Parameters are an unordered set of values
function f({x, y, z}) { ... }
f({z: 3, y: 2, x: 1});
```

**(4) Extracting JSON Data**

Destructuring assignment is especially useful for extracting data from JSON objects.

```javascript
let jsonData = {
  id: 42,
  status: "OK",
  data: [867, 5309]
};

let { id, status, data: number } = jsonData;

console.log(id, status, number);
// 42, "OK", [867, 5309]
```

The above code can quickly extract JSON data values.

**(5) Default Values for Function Parameters**

```javascript
jQuery.ajax = function (url, {
  async = true,
  beforeSend = function () {},
  cache = true,
  complete = function () {},
  crossDomain = false,
  global = true,
  // ... more config
} = {}) {
  // ... do stuff
};
```

Specifying default values for parameters avoids writing statements like `var foo = config.foo || 'default foo';` inside the function body.

**(6) Iterating Over Map Structures**

Any object that has deployed an Iterator interface can be traversed with a `for...of` loop. Map structures natively support the Iterator interface, and combined with destructuring assignment, getting key names and values becomes very convenient.

```javascript
const map = new Map();
map.set('first', 'hello');
map.set('second', 'world');

for (let [key, value] of map) {
  console.log(key + " is " + value);
}
// first is hello
// second is world
```

If you only want to get the key names, or only the values, you can write it as follows.

```javascript
// Getting key names
for (let [key] of map) {
  // ...
}

// Getting values
for (let [,value] of map) {
  // ...
}
```

**(7) Importing Specific Methods from Modules**

When loading modules, you often need to specify which methods to import. Destructuring assignment makes import statements very clear.

```javascript
const { SourceMapConsumer, SourceNode } = require("source-map");
```
