---
title: Object Extensions
date: 2020-02-09 16:00:29
permalink: /pages/b5e3e0a0ff6e9c25
author: 阮一峰
categories:
  - ES6 Tutorial Notes
tags:
  - ES6
---
# Object Extensions

Objects are the most important data structure in JavaScript. ES6 made significant upgrades to them. This chapter covers changes to the data structure itself; the next chapter covers new methods added to the `Object` object.
<!-- more -->
## Shorthand Property Notation

ES6 allows **variables and functions to be written directly inside curly braces as object properties and methods**. This results in more concise code.

```javascript
const foo = 'bar';
const baz = {foo};
baz // {foo: "bar"}

// equivalent to
const baz = {foo: foo};
```

In the code above, the variable `foo` is written directly inside curly braces. The property name is the variable name, and the property value is the variable value. Here is another example.

```javascript
function f(x, y) {
  return {x, y};
}

// equivalent to

function f(x, y) {
  return {x: x, y: y};
}

f(1, 2) // Object {x: 1, y: 2}
```

In addition to property shorthand, methods can also be shortened.

```javascript
const o = {
  method() {
    return "Hello!";
  }
};

// equivalent to

const o = {
  method: function() {
    return "Hello!";
  }
};
```

Here is a practical example.

```javascript
let birth = '2000/01/01';

const Person = {

  name: '张三',

  // equivalent to birth: birth
  birth,

  // equivalent to hello: function ()...
  hello() { console.log('我的名字是', this.name); }

};
```

This notation is very convenient for function return values.

```javascript
function getPoint() {
  const x = 1;
  const y = 10;
  return {x, y};
}

getPoint()
// {x:1, y:10}
```

CommonJS module exports of a set of variables are well-suited for shorthand notation.

```javascript
let ms = {};

function getItem (key) {
  return key in ms ? ms[key] : null;
}

function setItem (key, value) {
  ms[key] = value;
}

function clear () {
  ms = {};
}

module.exports = { getItem, setItem, clear };
// equivalent to
module.exports = {
  getItem: getItem,
  setItem: setItem,
  clear: clear
};
```

Property setters and getters actually also use this notation.

```javascript
const cart = {
  _wheels: 4,

  get wheels () {
    return this._wheels;
  },

  set wheels (value) {
    if (value < this._wheels) {
      throw new Error('Value is too small!');
    }
    this._wheels = value;
  }
}
```

Shorthand notation is also useful when printing objects.

```javascript
let user = {
  name: 'test'
};

let foo = {
  bar: 'baz'
};

console.log(user, foo)
// {name: "test"} {bar: "baz"}
console.log({user, foo})
// {user: {name: "test"}, foo: {bar: "baz"}}
```

In the code above, when `console.log` outputs `user` and `foo` directly, the result is two sets of key-value pairs that may be confusing. Placing them inside curly braces uses shorthand notation, printing the object name before each set of key-value pairs for clarity.

Note that **shorthand object methods cannot be used as constructors** — this will throw an error.

```javascript
const obj = {
  f() {
    this.foo = 'bar';
  }
};

new obj.f() // Error
```

In the code above, `f` is a shorthand object method, so `obj.f` cannot be used as a constructor.

## Computed Property Names

JavaScript provides two ways to define object properties.

```javascript
// Method 1
obj.foo = true;

// Method 2
obj['a' + 'bc'] = 123;
```

Method 1 uses an identifier directly as the property name. Method 2 uses an expression as the property name, which must be placed inside square brackets.

However, when defining objects using literal syntax (curly braces), ES5 only allows method 1 (identifiers) for defining properties.

```javascript
var obj = {
  foo: true,
  abc: 123
};
```

**ES6 allows method 2 (expressions) to be used as property names when defining objects with literals** — placing the expression inside square brackets.

```javascript
let propKey = 'foo';

let obj = {
  [propKey]: true,
  ['a' + 'bc']: 123
};
```

Here is another example.

```javascript
let lastWord = 'last word';

const a = {
  'first word': 'hello',
  [lastWord]: 'world'
};

a['first word'] // "hello"
a[lastWord] // "world"
a['last word'] // "world"
```

Expressions can also be used for defining method names.

```javascript
let obj = {
  ['h' + 'ello']() {
    return 'hi';
  }
};

obj.hello() // hi
```

Note that computed property names and shorthand notation cannot be used simultaneously — this will throw an error.

```javascript
// Error
const foo = 'bar';
const bar = 'abc';
const baz = { [foo] };

// Correct
const foo = 'bar';
const baz = { [foo]: 'abc'};
```

Note that if a computed property name is an object, it is automatically converted to the string `[object Object]` by default. This requires special attention.

```javascript
const keyA = {a: 1};
const keyB = {b: 2};

const myObject = {
  [keyA]: 'valueA',
  [keyB]: 'valueB'
};

myObject // Object {[object Object]: "valueB"}
```

In the code above, both `[keyA]` and `[keyB]` resolve to `[object Object]`, so `[keyB]` overwrites `[keyA]`, and `myObject` ends up with only one `[object Object]` property.

## The name Property of Methods

The `name` property of a function returns the function name. Object methods are also functions and therefore also have a `name` property.

```javascript
const person = {
  sayName() {
    console.log('hello!');
  },
};

person.sayName.name   // "sayName"
```

In the code above, the `name` property of the method returns the function name (i.e., the method name).

If an object method uses a getter or setter, the `name` property is not on the method itself but on the `get` and `set` properties of the method's property descriptor object. The return value is the method name prefixed with `get` or `set`.

```javascript
const obj = {
  get foo() {},
  set foo(x) {}
};

obj.foo.name
// TypeError: Cannot read property 'name' of undefined

const descriptor = Object.getOwnPropertyDescriptor(obj, 'foo');

descriptor.get.name // "get foo"
descriptor.set.name // "set foo"
```

There are two special cases: functions created by `bind` have a `name` property that returns `bound` plus the original function name; functions created by the `Function` constructor have a `name` property that returns `anonymous`.

```javascript
(new Function()).name // "anonymous"

var doSomething = function() {
  // ...
};
doSomething.bind().name // "bound doSomething"
```

If an object method is a Symbol value, the `name` property returns the Symbol's description.

```javascript
const key1 = Symbol('description');
const key2 = Symbol();
let obj = {
  [key1]() {},
  [key2]() {},
};
obj[key1].name // "[description]"
obj[key2].name // ""
```

In the code above, `key1` has a description for its Symbol value, while `key2` does not.

## Property Enumerability and Traversal

### Enumerability

Each property of an object has a descriptor object that controls the property's behavior. The `Object.getOwnPropertyDescriptor` method retrieves a property's descriptor.

```javascript
let obj = { foo: 123 };
Object.getOwnPropertyDescriptor(obj, 'foo')
//  {
//    value: 123,
//    writable: true,
//    enumerable: true,
//    configurable: true
//  }
```

The `enumerable` property of the descriptor is called "enumerability." If it is `false`, certain operations will ignore that property.

Currently, four operations ignore properties where `enumerable` is `false`.

- `for...in` loop: Iterates over the object's own and inherited enumerable properties.
- `Object.keys()`: Returns an array of the object's own enumerable property key names.
- `JSON.stringify()`: Only serializes the object's own enumerable properties.
- `Object.assign()`: Ignores properties where `enumerable` is `false`; only copies the object's own enumerable properties.

Of these four operations, the first three existed in ES5, and `Object.assign()` is new in ES6. Only `for...in` returns inherited properties; the other three ignore inherited properties and only deal with the object's own properties. The original purpose of introducing "enumerability" was to allow certain properties to be excluded from `for...in` iteration — otherwise all internal properties and methods would be iterated. For example, the `toString` method on Object's prototype and the `length` property of arrays use "enumerability" to avoid being iterated by `for...in`.

```javascript
Object.getOwnPropertyDescriptor(Object.prototype, 'toString').enumerable
// false

Object.getOwnPropertyDescriptor([], 'length').enumerable
// false
```

In the code above, `toString` and `length` both have `enumerable` set to `false`, so `for...in` does not iterate these two inherited properties from the prototype.

Additionally, ES6 specifies that all methods on Class prototypes are non-enumerable.

```javascript
Object.getOwnPropertyDescriptor(class {foo() {}}.prototype, 'foo').enumerable
// false
```

In general, introducing inherited properties into operations complicates things. Most of the time, we only care about the object's own properties. Therefore, try to avoid `for...in` loops and use `Object.keys()` instead.

### Property Traversal

ES6 provides 5 methods to traverse an object's properties.

**(1) for...in**

`for...in` iterates over the object's own and inherited enumerable properties (excluding Symbol properties).

**(2) Object.keys(obj)**

`Object.keys` returns an array of all the object's own (non-inherited) enumerable property key names (excluding Symbol properties).

**(3) Object.getOwnPropertyNames(obj)**

`Object.getOwnPropertyNames` returns an array of all the object's own property key names (excluding Symbol properties but including non-enumerable properties).

**(4) Object.getOwnPropertySymbols(obj)**

`Object.getOwnPropertySymbols` returns an array of all the object's own Symbol property key names.

**(5) Reflect.ownKeys(obj)**

`Reflect.ownKeys` returns an array of all the object's own key names, regardless of whether they are Symbols or strings, or whether they are enumerable.

All 5 methods for traversing object keys follow the same property traversal order rules.

- First, all numeric keys are traversed, sorted in ascending numerical order.
- Then, all string keys are traversed, sorted by their addition time.
- Finally, all Symbol keys are traversed, sorted by their addition time.

```javascript
Reflect.ownKeys({ [Symbol()]:0, b:0, 10:0, 2:0, a:0 })
// ['2', '10', 'b', 'a', Symbol()]
```

In the code above, `Reflect.ownKeys` returns an array containing all properties of the argument object. The property order is: first numeric properties `2` and `10`, then string properties `b` and `a`, and finally the Symbol property.

## The super Keyword

We know that the `this` keyword always refers to the current object where the function resides. ES6 introduced another similar keyword, `super`, which **refers to the current object's prototype**.

```javascript
const proto = {
  foo: 'hello'
};

const obj = {
  foo: 'world',
  find() {
    return super.foo;
  }
};

Object.setPrototypeOf(obj, proto);
obj.find() // "hello"
```

In the code above, within the `obj.find()` method, `super.foo` references the `foo` property of the prototype object `proto`.

Note that the `super` keyword can only be used inside object methods when referring to the prototype object. Using it elsewhere will throw an error.

```javascript
// Error
const obj = {
  foo: super.foo
}

// Error
const obj = {
  foo: () => super.foo
}

// Error
const obj = {
  foo: function () {
    return super.foo
  }
}
```

All three uses of `super` above throw errors because, as far as the JavaScript engine is concerned, `super` is not used inside an object method. In the first case, `super` is used in a property. In the second and third cases, `super` is used inside a function that is then assigned to the `foo` property. Currently, only the method shorthand syntax lets the JavaScript engine confirm that what is being defined is an object method.

Internally in the JavaScript engine, `super.foo` is equivalent to `Object.getPrototypeOf(this).foo` (for properties) or `Object.getPrototypeOf(this).foo.call(this)` (for methods).

```javascript
const proto = {
  x: 'hello',
  foo() {
    console.log(this.x);
  },
};

const obj = {
  x: 'world',
  foo() {
    super.foo();
  }
}

Object.setPrototypeOf(obj, proto);

obj.foo() // "world"
```

In the code above, `super.foo` refers to the `foo` method of the prototype object `proto`, but the `this` that is bound is still the current object `obj`, so the output is `world`.

## Object Spread Operator

The "Array Extensions" chapter already covered the spread operator (`...`). ES2018 [introduced](https://github.com/sebmarkbage/ecmascript-rest-spread) this operator for objects.

### Destructuring Assignment

Object destructuring assignment is used to extract values from an object. It assigns all of the target object's own enumerable but not-yet-read properties to the specified object. All keys and their values are copied to the new object.

```javascript
let { x, y, ...z } = { x: 1, y: 2, a: 3, b: 4 };
x // 1
y // 2
z // { a: 3, b: 4 }
```

In the code above, variable `z` is the object where destructuring assignment takes place. It receives all keys not yet read from the right side of the equals sign (`a` and `b`), along with their values.

Since destructuring assignment requires the right side to be an object, if the right side is `undefined` or `null`, an error is thrown because they cannot be converted to objects.

```javascript
let { ...z } = null; // runtime error
let { ...z } = undefined; // runtime error
```

The destructuring assignment must be the last parameter; otherwise, an error is thrown.

```javascript
let { ...x, y, z } = someObject; // syntax error
let { x, ...y, ...z } = someObject; // syntax error
```

In the code above, the destructuring assignment is not the last parameter, so it throws an error.

Note that destructuring assignment performs a shallow copy: if a key's value is a composite type (array, object, function), the destructuring assignment copies the reference to this value, not a deep copy of the value.

```javascript
let obj = { a: { b: 1 } };
let { ...x } = obj;
obj.a.b = 2;
x.a.b // 2
```

In the code above, `x` is the object where destructuring assignment takes place, copying the `a` property from object `obj`. The `a` property references an object. Modifying that object's value affects the destructuring assignment's reference to it.

Additionally, the destructuring assignment with the spread operator cannot copy properties inherited from the prototype.

```javascript
let o1 = { a: 1 };
let o2 = { b: 2 };
o2.__proto__ = o1;
let { ...o3 } = o2;
o3 // { b: 2 }
o3.a // undefined
```

In the code above, object `o3` copies `o2`, but only its own properties — not those of its prototype `o1`.

Here is another example.

```javascript
const o = Object.create({ x: 1, y: 2 });
o.z = 3;

let { x, ...newObj } = o;
let { y, z } = newObj;
x // 1
y // undefined
z // 3
```

In the code above, variable `x` uses simple destructuring assignment, so it can read inherited properties of object `o`. Variables `y` and `z` use destructuring assignment with the spread operator, which can only read object `o`'s own properties. So `z` is successfully assigned, while `y` gets no value. The ES6 specification states that in variable declaration statements, if destructuring assignment is used, the spread operator must be followed by a variable name and not a destructuring expression. This is why the intermediate variable `newObj` is introduced above. Writing it as follows would throw an error.

```javascript
let { x, ...{ y, z } } = o;
// SyntaxError: ... must be followed by an identifier in declaration contexts
```

One use of destructuring assignment is extending function parameters to introduce additional operations.

```javascript
function baseFunction({ a, b }) {
  // ...
}
function wrapperFunction({ x, y, ...restConfig }) {
  // Use x and y parameters for operations
  // Pass remaining parameters to the original function
  return baseFunction(restConfig);
}
```

In the code above, the original function `baseFunction` accepts `a` and `b` as parameters. The `wrapperFunction` extends `baseFunction`, accepting additional parameters while preserving the original function's behavior.

### Spread Operator

The object spread operator (`...`) extracts all enumerable properties of the argument object and copies them into the current object.

```javascript
let z = { a: 3, b: 4 };
let n = { ...z };
n // { a: 3, b: 4 }
```

Since arrays are special objects, the object spread operator can also be used with arrays.

```javascript
let foo = { ...['a', 'b', 'c'] };
foo
// {0: "a", 1: "b", 2: "c"}
```

If the spread operator is followed by an empty object, there is no effect.

```javascript
{...{}, a: 1}
// { a: 1 }
```

If the spread operator is followed by something other than an object, it is automatically converted to an object.

```javascript
// equivalent to {...Object(1)}
{...1} // {}
```

In the code above, the integer `1` follows the spread operator and is automatically converted to the numeric wrapper object `Number{1}`. Since this object has no own properties, an empty object is returned.

The following examples follow the same logic.

```javascript
// equivalent to {...Object(true)}
{...true} // {}

// equivalent to {...Object(undefined)}
{...undefined} // {}

// equivalent to {...Object(null)}
{...null} // {}
```

However, if the spread operator is followed by a string, it is automatically converted to an array-like object, so the result is not an empty object.

```javascript
{...'hello'}
// {0: "h", 1: "e", 2: "l", 3: "l", 4: "o"}
```

The object spread operator is equivalent to using `Object.assign()`.

```javascript
let aClone = { ...a };
// equivalent to
let aClone = Object.assign({}, a);
```

The example above only copies the object instance's properties. To completely clone an object, including its prototype properties, use the following approach.

```javascript
// Approach 1
const clone1 = {
  __proto__: Object.getPrototypeOf(obj),
  ...obj
};

// Approach 2
const clone2 = Object.assign(
  Object.create(Object.getPrototypeOf(obj)),
  obj
);

// Approach 3
const clone3 = Object.create(
  Object.getPrototypeOf(obj),
  Object.getOwnPropertyDescriptors(obj)
)
```

In the code above, approach 1's `__proto__` property may not be available in non-browser environments, so approaches 2 and 3 are recommended.

The spread operator can be used to merge two objects.

```javascript
let ab = { ...a, ...b };
// equivalent to
let ab = Object.assign({}, a, b);
```

If user-defined properties are placed after the spread operator, properties with the same name inside the spread operator are overridden.

```javascript
let aWithOverrides = { ...a, x: 1, y: 2 };
// equivalent to
let aWithOverrides = { ...a, ...{ x: 1, y: 2 } };
// equivalent to
let x = 1, y = 2, aWithOverrides = { ...a, x, y };
// equivalent to
let aWithOverrides = Object.assign({}, a, { x: 1, y: 2 });
```

In the code above, the `x` and `y` properties of object `a` are overridden after being copied to the new object.

This is very convenient for modifying some properties of existing objects.

```javascript
let newVersion = {
  ...previousVersion,
  name: 'New Name' // Override the name property
};
```

In the code above, `newVersion` customizes the `name` property while copying all other properties from `previousVersion`.

If custom properties are placed before the spread operator, they become default values for the new object.

```javascript
let aWithDefaults = { x: 1, y: 2, ...a };
// equivalent to
let aWithDefaults = Object.assign({}, { x: 1, y: 2 }, a);
// equivalent to
let aWithDefaults = Object.assign({ x: 1, y: 2 }, a);
```

Like the array spread operator, the object spread operator can be followed by an expression.

```javascript
const obj = {
  ...(x > 1 ? {a: 1} : {}),
  b: 2,
};
```

If the argument object of the spread operator contains a getter function `get`, that function will be executed.

```javascript
// Does not throw an error because the x property is only defined, not executed
let aWithXGetter = {
  ...a,
  get x() {
    throw new Error('not throw yet');
  }
};

// Throws an error because the x property is executed
let runtimeError = {
  ...a,
  ...{
    get x() {
      throw new Error('throw now');
    }
  }
};
```

## Optional Chaining Operator

In practice, reading an internal property of an object often requires checking whether the object exists. For example, to read `message.body.user.firstName`, the safe approach is to write it like this.

```javascript
const firstName = (message
  && message.body
  && message.body.user
  && message.body.user.firstName) || 'default';
```

Or use the ternary operator `?:` to check whether an object exists.

```javascript
const fooInput = myForm.querySelector('input[name=foo]')
const fooValue = fooInput ? fooInput.value : undefined
```

This layer-by-layer checking is very cumbersome, so [ES2020](https://github.com/tc39/proposal-optional-chaining) introduced the "optional chaining operator" `?.` to simplify the above.

```javascript
const firstName = message?.body?.user?.firstName || 'default';
const fooValue = myForm.querySelector('input[name=foo]')?.value
```

The code above uses the `?.` operator to check directly during chain calls whether the left-side object is `null` or `undefined`. If so, evaluation stops and `undefined` is returned.

The optional chaining operator has three forms of usage.

- `obj?.prop` // object property
- `obj?.[expr]` // same as above
- `func?.(...args)` // function or method invocation

Below is an example that checks whether an object method exists and calls it immediately if it does.

```javascript
iterator.return?.()
```

In the code above, if `iterator.return` is defined, it will be called; otherwise, `undefined` is returned directly.

This operator is particularly useful for methods that may not be implemented.

```javascript
if (myForm.checkValidity?.() === false) {
  // form validation failed
  return;
}
```

In the code above, older browsers may not have the `checkValidity` method on forms. The `?.` operator returns `undefined`, and the conditional becomes `undefined === false`, so the subsequent code is skipped.

Below are common usage forms of this operator and their equivalent forms without the operator.

```javascript
a?.b
// equivalent to
a == null ? undefined : a.b

a?.[x]
// equivalent to
a == null ? undefined : a[x]

a?.b()
// equivalent to
a == null ? undefined : a.b()

a?.()
// equivalent to
a == null ? undefined : a()
```

In the code above, pay special attention to the last two forms. If `a?.b()` is used and `a.b` is not a function and cannot be called, `a?.b()` will throw an error. The same applies to `a?.()`: if `a` is not `null` or `undefined` but also not a function, `a?.()` will throw an error.

There are several points to note when using this operator.

(1) Short-circuit mechanism

```javascript
a?.[++x]
// equivalent to
a == null ? undefined : a[++x]
```

In the code above, if `a` is `undefined` or `null`, `x` will not be incremented. In other words, once the optional chaining operator evaluates to true, the right-side expression is not evaluated.

(2) The delete operator

```javascript
delete a?.b
// equivalent to
a == null ? undefined : delete a.b
```

In the code above, if `a` is `undefined` or `null`, `undefined` is returned directly without performing the `delete` operation.

(3) Effect of parentheses

If the property chain has parentheses, the optional chaining operator has no effect outside the parentheses — only inside.

```javascript
(a?.b).c
// equivalent to
(a == null ? undefined : a.b).c
```

In the code above, `?.` has no effect outside the parentheses. Regardless of whether object `a` exists, `.c` after the parentheses is always executed.

Generally, when using `?.`, parentheses should not be used.

(4) Error scenarios

The following usages are forbidden and will throw errors.

```javascript
// Constructor
new a?.()
new a?.b()

// Template string on the right side of optional chaining
a?.`{b}`
a?.b`{c}`

// super on the left side of optional chaining
super?.()
super?.foo

// Optional chaining used on the left side of assignment
a?.b = c
```

(5) Right side must not be a decimal number

To maintain backward compatibility, `foo?.3:0` is parsed as `foo ? .3 : 0`. Therefore, if `?.` is immediately followed by a decimal digit, `?.` is no longer treated as a complete operator. Instead, it is processed as a ternary operator — the decimal point belongs to the subsequent decimal number.

## Nullish Coalescing Operator

When reading object properties, if a property's value is `null` or `undefined`, you sometimes need to specify a default value. The common approach is to use the `||` operator.

```javascript
const headerText = response.settings.headerText || 'Hello, world!';
const animationDuration = response.settings.animationDuration || 300;
const showSplashScreen = response.settings.showSplashScreen || true;
```

The three lines of code above all use `||` to specify default values, but this is incorrect. The developer's intent is for the default value to take effect only when the property value is `null` or `undefined`. However, when the property value is an empty string, `false`, or `0`, the default value also takes effect.

To avoid this, [ES2020](https://github.com/tc39/proposal-nullish-coalescing) introduced the nullish coalescing operator `??`. It behaves like `||`, but only returns the right-side value when the left-side value is `null` or `undefined`.

```javascript
const headerText = response.settings.headerText ?? 'Hello, world!';
const animationDuration = response.settings.animationDuration ?? 300;
const showSplashScreen = response.settings.showSplashScreen ?? true;
```

In the code above, the default value only takes effect when the property value is `null` or `undefined`.

One purpose of this operator is to be used in conjunction with the optional chaining operator `?.` to set default values for `null` or `undefined`.

```javascript
const animationDuration = response.settings?.animationDuration ?? 300;
```

In the code above, if `response.settings` is `null` or `undefined`, the default value 300 is returned.

This operator is well-suited for checking whether function parameters have been assigned values.

```javascript
function Component(props) {
  const enable = props.enabled ?? true;
  // …
}
```

The code above checks whether the `enabled` property of the `props` parameter has been assigned. This is equivalent to the following.

```javascript
function Component(props) {
  const {
    enabled: enable = true,
  } = props;
  // …
}
```

`??` has an operator precedence concern regarding its relationship with `&&` and `||`. The current rule is that when multiple logical operators are used together, parentheses must be used to indicate precedence; otherwise, an error is thrown.

```javascript
// Error
lhs && middle ?? rhs
lhs ?? middle && rhs
lhs || middle ?? rhs
lhs ?? middle || rhs
```

All four expressions above throw errors. Parentheses must be added to indicate precedence.

```javascript
(lhs && middle) ?? rhs;
lhs && (middle ?? rhs);

(lhs ?? middle) && rhs;
lhs ?? (middle && rhs);

(lhs || middle) ?? rhs;
lhs || (middle ?? rhs);

(lhs ?? middle) || rhs;
lhs ?? (middle || rhs);
```
