---
title: Symbol
date: 2020-02-09 16:00:29
permalink: /pages/02c86eb2792f3262
author: 阮一峰
categories:
  - 《ES6 教程》笔记
tags:
  - ES6
---
# Symbol

## Overview

In ES5, object property names are all strings, which can easily lead to property name conflicts. For example, if you use an object provided by someone else but want to add new methods to it (mixin pattern), the name of the new method might conflict with existing methods. It would be great if there were a mechanism to **guarantee that every property name is unique**, fundamentally preventing property name conflicts. This is the reason ES6 introduced `Symbol`.
<!-- more -->

ES6 introduced a new **primitive data type `Symbol`, which represents a unique value**. It is the seventh data type in JavaScript, the previous six being: `undefined`, `null`, Boolean, String, Number, and Object.

**Symbol values are generated through the `Symbol` function**. This means that **object property names can now be of two types: the original string type, and the new Symbol type.** Any property name that is of the Symbol type is guaranteed to be unique and will not conflict with other property names.

```javascript
let s = Symbol();

typeof s
// "symbol"
```

In the code above, the variable `s` is a unique value. The result of the `typeof` operator shows that variable `s` is of the Symbol data type, not a string or any other type.

Note that **the `Symbol` function cannot be used with the `new` command, otherwise an error will be thrown**. This is because the generated Symbol is a primitive type value, not an object. In other words, since **Symbol values are not objects, properties cannot be added to them**. Essentially, it is a data type similar to strings.

**The `Symbol` function can accept a string as an argument**, which serves as a description of the Symbol instance, mainly for display in the console or for easier identification when converted to a string.

```javascript
let s1 = Symbol('foo');
let s2 = Symbol('bar');

s1 // Symbol(foo)
s2 // Symbol(bar)

s1.toString() // "Symbol(foo)"
s2.toString() // "Symbol(bar)"
```

In the code above, `s1` and `s2` are two Symbol values. Without arguments, their output in the console would both be `Symbol()`, making them hard to distinguish. With arguments, descriptions are added to them, making it clear which value is which in the output.

If the **argument to Symbol is an object, the object's `toString` method will be called to convert it to a string** before generating a Symbol value.

```javascript
const obj = {
  toString() {
    return 'abc';
  }
};
const sym = Symbol(obj);
sym // Symbol(abc)
```

Note that **the argument to the `Symbol` function is only a description of the current Symbol value, so `Symbol` functions with the same argument will return unequal values.**

```javascript
// Without arguments
let s1 = Symbol();
let s2 = Symbol();

s1 === s2 // false

// With arguments
let s1 = Symbol('foo');
let s2 = Symbol('foo');

s1 === s2 // false
```

In the code above, `s1` and `s2` are both return values of the `Symbol` function with the same argument, but they are **not equal**.

Symbol values **cannot be used in operations with other types of values**; doing so will throw an error.

```javascript
let sym = Symbol('My symbol');

"your symbol is " + sym
// TypeError: can't convert symbol to string
`your symbol is ${sym}`
// TypeError: can't convert symbol to string
```

However, **Symbol values can be explicitly converted to strings**.

```javascript
let sym = Symbol('My symbol');

String(sym) // 'Symbol(My symbol)'
sym.toString() // 'Symbol(My symbol)'
```

Additionally, **Symbol values can be converted to booleans, but cannot be converted to numbers**.

```javascript
let sym = Symbol();
Boolean(sym) // true
!sym  // false

if (sym) {
  // ...
}

Number(sym) // TypeError
sym + 2 // TypeError
```

## Symbol.prototype.description

When creating a Symbol, you can add a description.

```javascript
const sym = Symbol('foo');
```

In the code above, the description of `sym` is the string `foo`.

However, reading this description requires explicitly converting the Symbol to a string, as shown below.

```javascript
const sym = Symbol('foo');

String(sym) // "Symbol(foo)"
sym.toString() // "Symbol(foo)"
```

The usage above is not very convenient. [ES2019](https://github.com/tc39/proposal-Symbol-description) provides an instance property `description` that directly returns the Symbol's description.

```javascript
const sym = Symbol('foo');

sym.description // "foo"
```

## Symbol as Property Names

Since every Symbol value is unique, Symbol values can be used as identifiers for object property names, guaranteeing that no same-named properties will appear. This is very useful when an object is composed of multiple modules, preventing a key from being accidentally overwritten.

```javascript
let mySymbol = Symbol();

// First approach
let a = {};
a[mySymbol] = 'Hello!';

// Second approach
let a = {
  [mySymbol]: 'Hello!'
};

// Third approach
let a = {};
Object.defineProperty(a, mySymbol, { value: 'Hello!' });

// All approaches produce the same result
a[mySymbol] // "Hello!"
```

The code above **uses bracket notation and `Object.defineProperty` to set an object's property name to a Symbol value**.

Note that the dot operator cannot be used when a Symbol value is used as a property name.

```javascript
const mySymbol = Symbol();
const a = {};

a.mySymbol = 'Hello!';
a[mySymbol] // undefined
a['mySymbol'] // "Hello!"
```

In the code above, since the dot operator is always followed by a string, it does not read `mySymbol` as the identifier it refers to. As a result, `a`'s property name is actually a string, not a Symbol value.

Similarly, when using a Symbol value to define a property inside an object, the Symbol value must be placed in brackets.

```javascript
let s = Symbol();

let obj = {
  [s]: function (arg) { ... }
};

obj[s](123);
```

In the code above, if `s` is not placed in brackets, the property's key would be the string `s`, not the Symbol value that `s` represents.

Using the enhanced object literal syntax, the `obj` object in the code above can be written more concisely.

```javascript
let obj = {
  [s](arg) { ... }
};
```

The Symbol type can also be used to define a set of constants, ensuring that the values of all constants are unique.

```javascript
const log = {};

log.levels = {
  DEBUG: Symbol('debug'),
  INFO: Symbol('info'),
  WARN: Symbol('warn')
};
console.log(log.levels.DEBUG, 'debug message');
console.log(log.levels.INFO, 'info message');
```

Here is another example.

```javascript
const COLOR_RED    = Symbol();
const COLOR_GREEN  = Symbol();

function getComplement(color) {
  switch (color) {
    case COLOR_RED:
      return COLOR_GREEN;
    case COLOR_GREEN:
      return COLOR_RED;
    default:
      throw new Error('Undefined color');
    }
}
```

The greatest benefit of using Symbol values for constants is that no other value can ever have the same value, ensuring that the `switch` statement above works as designed.

One more thing to note: when a Symbol value is used as a property name, that property is still a public property, not a private one.

## Example: Eliminating Magic Strings

**A magic string is a specific string or number that appears multiple times in code and is strongly coupled with the code.** Well-styled code should eliminate magic strings as much as possible, replacing them with clearly named variables.

```javascript
function getArea(shape, options) {
  let area = 0;

  switch (shape) {
    case 'Triangle': // magic string
      area = .5 * options.width * options.height;
      break;
    /* ... more code ... */
  }

  return area;
}

getArea('Triangle', { width: 100, height: 100 }); // magic string
```

In the code above, the string `Triangle` is a magic string. It appears multiple times and is "strongly coupled" with the code, making future modifications and maintenance difficult.

> Note:
>
> The `Triangle` string appears multiple times in the code. If you want to change this string later, you would need to modify many places, making maintenance difficult.



A common method for eliminating magic strings is to assign them to variables.

```javascript
const shapeType = {
  triangle: 'Triangle'
};

function getArea(shape, options) {
  let area = 0;
  switch (shape) {
    case shapeType.triangle:
      area = .5 * options.width * options.height;
      break;
  }
  return area;
}

getArea(shapeType.triangle, { width: 100, height: 100 });
```

In the code above, we assigned `Triangle` to the `triangle` property of the `shapeType` object, thus eliminating the strong coupling.

Upon careful analysis, you can see that the **exact value of `shapeType.triangle` doesn't matter, as long as it doesn't conflict with other `shapeType` property values. Therefore, this is a perfect case for using Symbol values**.

```javascript
const shapeType = {
  triangle: Symbol()
};
```

In the code above, aside from changing the value of `shapeType.triangle` to a Symbol, no other modifications are needed.

## Traversal of Property Names

**When Symbol is used as a property name, the property will not appear in `for...in` or `for...of` loops, nor will it be returned by `Object.keys()`, `Object.getOwnPropertyNames()`, or `JSON.stringify()`**.

However, it is not a private property either. The **`Object.getOwnPropertySymbols()` method can retrieve all Symbol property names of a given object**. This method returns an array whose elements are all the Symbol values used as property names on the current object.

```javascript
const obj = {};
let a = Symbol('a');
let b = Symbol('b');

obj[a] = 'Hello';
obj[b] = 'World';

const objectSymbols = Object.getOwnPropertySymbols(obj);

objectSymbols
// [Symbol(a), Symbol(b)]
```

The code above is an example of the `Object.getOwnPropertySymbols()` method, which can retrieve all Symbol property names.

Below is another example, comparing `Object.getOwnPropertySymbols()` with the `for...in` loop and the `Object.getOwnPropertyNames` method.

```javascript
const obj = {};
const foo = Symbol('foo');

obj[foo] = 'bar';

for (let i in obj) {
  console.log(i); // no output
}

Object.getOwnPropertyNames(obj) // []
Object.getOwnPropertySymbols(obj) // [Symbol(foo)]
```

In the code above, neither the `for...in` loop nor `Object.getOwnPropertyNames()` can retrieve Symbol key names; you need to use `Object.getOwnPropertySymbols()`.

Another new API, `Reflect.ownKeys()`, can return all types of key names, including both regular key names and Symbol key names.

```javascript
let obj = {
  [Symbol('my_key')]: 1,
  enum: 2,
  nonEnum: 3
};

Reflect.ownKeys(obj)
//  ["enum", "nonEnum", Symbol(my_key)]
```

Since Symbol-keyed properties are not found by conventional traversal methods, we can take advantage of this feature to **define properties that are not private but are intended for internal use only**.

```javascript
let size = Symbol('size');

class Collection {
  constructor() {
    this[size] = 0;
  }

  add(item) {
    this[this[size]] = item;
    this[size]++;
  }

  static sizeOf(instance) {
    return instance[size];
  }
}

let x = new Collection();
Collection.sizeOf(x) // 0

x.add('foo');
Collection.sizeOf(x) // 1

Object.keys(x) // ['0']
Object.getOwnPropertyNames(x) // ['0']
Object.getOwnPropertySymbols(x) // [Symbol(size)]
```

In the code above, the `size` property of object `x` is a Symbol value, so `Object.keys(x)` and `Object.getOwnPropertyNames(x)` cannot retrieve it. This creates the effect of a non-private internal method.

## Symbol.for(), Symbol.keyFor()

Sometimes we want to reuse the same Symbol value. The `Symbol.for()` method can achieve this. It accepts a string as an argument, then searches for a Symbol value with that string as its name. If found, it returns that Symbol value; otherwise, it creates a new Symbol value with that string as its name and registers it globally.

```javascript
let s1 = Symbol.for('foo');
let s2 = Symbol.for('foo');

s1 === s2 // true
```

In the code above, both `s1` and `s2` are Symbol values generated by `Symbol.for` with the same argument, so they are actually the same value.

Both `Symbol.for()` and `Symbol()` generate new Symbols. The difference is that the former is registered in a global environment for searching, while the latter is not. **`Symbol.for()` does not return a new Symbol value every time it's called; instead, it first checks whether the given `key` already exists, and only creates a new value if it doesn't**. For example, calling `Symbol.for("cat")` 30 times will always return the same Symbol value, but calling `Symbol("cat")` 30 times will return 30 different Symbol values.

```javascript
Symbol.for("bar") === Symbol.for("bar")
// true

Symbol("bar") === Symbol("bar")
// false
```

In the code above, since `Symbol()` has no registration mechanism, each call returns a different value.

The `Symbol.keyFor()` method returns the `key` of a registered Symbol value.

```javascript
let s1 = Symbol.for("foo");
Symbol.keyFor(s1) // "foo"

let s2 = Symbol("foo");
Symbol.keyFor(s2) // undefined
```

In the code above, variable `s2` is an unregistered Symbol value, so `undefined` is returned.

Note that **`Symbol.for()` registers the name for a Symbol value in the global environment, regardless of whether it is run in the global environment.**

```javascript
function foo() {
  return Symbol.for('bar');
}

const x = foo();
const y = Symbol.for('bar');
console.log(x === y); // true
```

In the code above, `Symbol.for('bar')` runs inside a function, but the generated Symbol value is registered in the global environment. So the second call to `Symbol.for('bar')` can retrieve this Symbol value.

This global registration feature of `Symbol.for()` can be used to get the same value across different iframes or service workers.

```javascript
iframe = document.createElement('iframe');
iframe.src = String(window.location);
document.body.appendChild(iframe);

iframe.contentWindow.Symbol.for('foo') === Symbol.for('foo')
// true
```

In the code above, the Symbol value generated by the iframe window can be obtained in the main page.

## Example: Module Singleton Pattern

The Singleton pattern means that calling a class always returns the same instance.

For Node, a module file can be thought of as a class. How can you ensure that every time this module file is executed, the same instance is returned?

An easy approach is to place the instance on the top-level object `global`.

```javascript
// mod.js
function A() {
  this.foo = 'hello';
}

if (!global._foo) {
  global._foo = new A();
}

module.exports = global._foo;
```

Then, load the `mod.js` above.

```javascript
const a = require('./mod.js');
console.log(a.foo);
```

In the code above, variable `a` always loads the same instance of `A`.

However, there is a problem: the global variable `global._foo` is writable, and any file can modify it.

```javascript
global._foo = { foo: 'world' };

const a = require('./mod.js');
console.log(a.foo);
```

The code above would cause all scripts that load `mod.js` to get incorrect results.

To prevent this, we can use Symbol.

```javascript
// mod.js
const FOO_KEY = Symbol.for('foo');

function A() {
  this.foo = 'hello';
}

if (!global[FOO_KEY]) {
  global[FOO_KEY] = new A();
}

module.exports = global[FOO_KEY];
```

In the code above, `global[FOO_KEY]` is protected from accidental overwriting, but it can still be deliberately modified.

```javascript
global[Symbol.for('foo')] = { foo: 'world' };

const a = require('./mod.js');
```

If the key is generated using the `Symbol` method, then external code cannot reference this value and therefore cannot modify it.

```javascript
// mod.js
const FOO_KEY = Symbol('foo');

// The rest of the code is the same...
```

The code above makes it impossible for other scripts to reference `FOO_KEY`. However, this also means that if the script is executed multiple times, each execution will produce a different `FOO_KEY`. Although Node caches script execution results and normally won't execute the same script multiple times, users can manually clear the cache, so it's not absolutely reliable.

## Built-in Symbol Values

In addition to Symbols defined for your own use, ES6 provides 11 built-in Symbol values that point to methods used internally by the language.

### Symbol.hasInstance

An object's `Symbol.hasInstance` property points to an internal method. When other objects use the `instanceof` operator to check if they are instances of this object, this method is called. For example, `foo instanceof Foo` internally calls `Foo[Symbol.hasInstance](foo)`.

```javascript
class MyClass {
  [Symbol.hasInstance](foo) {
    return foo instanceof Array;
  }
}

[1, 2, 3] instanceof new MyClass() // true
```

In the code above, `MyClass` is a class. `new MyClass()` returns an instance. The instance's `Symbol.hasInstance` method is automatically called during `instanceof` operations to determine if the left-hand operand is an instance of `Array`.

Here is another example.

```javascript
class Even {
  static [Symbol.hasInstance](obj) {
    return Number(obj) % 2 === 0;
  }
}

// Equivalent to
const Even = {
  [Symbol.hasInstance](obj) {
    return Number(obj) % 2 === 0;
  }
};

1 instanceof Even // false
2 instanceof Even // true
12345 instanceof Even // false
```

### Symbol.isConcatSpreadable

An object's `Symbol.isConcatSpreadable` property is a boolean value indicating whether the object can be spread when used with `Array.prototype.concat()`.

```javascript
let arr1 = ['c', 'd'];
['a', 'b'].concat(arr1, 'e') // ['a', 'b', 'c', 'd', 'e']
arr1[Symbol.isConcatSpreadable] // undefined

let arr2 = ['c', 'd'];
arr2[Symbol.isConcatSpreadable] = false;
['a', 'b'].concat(arr2, 'e') // ['a', 'b', ['c','d'], 'e']
```

The code above shows that the default behavior of arrays is to be spreadable. `Symbol.isConcatSpreadable` defaults to `undefined`. When this property is set to `true`, the spreading effect is the same.

Array-like objects behave the opposite way -- they are not spread by default. Their `Symbol.isConcatSpreadable` property must be set to `true` for them to be spread.

```javascript
let obj = {length: 2, 0: 'c', 1: 'd'};
['a', 'b'].concat(obj, 'e') // ['a', 'b', obj, 'e']

obj[Symbol.isConcatSpreadable] = true;
['a', 'b'].concat(obj, 'e') // ['a', 'b', 'c', 'd', 'e']
```

The `Symbol.isConcatSpreadable` property can also be defined inside a class.

```javascript
class A1 extends Array {
  constructor(args) {
    super(args);
    this[Symbol.isConcatSpreadable] = true;
  }
}
class A2 extends Array {
  constructor(args) {
    super(args);
  }
  get [Symbol.isConcatSpreadable] () {
    return false;
  }
}
let a1 = new A1();
a1[0] = 3;
a1[1] = 4;
let a2 = new A2();
a2[0] = 5;
a2[1] = 6;
[1, 2].concat(a1).concat(a2)
// [1, 2, 3, 4, [5, 6]]
```

In the code above, class `A1` is spreadable while class `A2` is not, which leads to different results when using `concat`.

Note the difference in where `Symbol.isConcatSpreadable` is defined: `A1` defines it on the instance, while `A2` defines it on the class itself, yet the effect is the same.

### Symbol.species

An object's `Symbol.species` property points to a constructor function. When creating derived objects, this constructor will be used.

```javascript
class MyArray extends Array {
}

const a = new MyArray(1, 2, 3);
const b = a.map(x => x);
const c = a.filter(x => x > 1);

b instanceof MyArray // true
c instanceof MyArray // true
```

In the code above, the subclass `MyArray` extends the parent class `Array`. `a` is an instance of `MyArray`, and `b` and `c` are objects derived from `a`. You might think that `b` and `c` should be arrays (instances of `Array`) since they are generated by array methods, but they are actually also instances of `MyArray`.

The `Symbol.species` property is provided to solve this problem. Now we can set the `Symbol.species` property for `MyArray`.

```javascript
class MyArray extends Array {
  static get [Symbol.species]() { return Array; }
}
```

In the code above, because `Symbol.species` is defined, the function returned by this property will be used as the constructor when creating derived objects. This example also shows that `Symbol.species` should be defined using a `get` accessor. The default `Symbol.species` property is equivalent to the following.

```javascript
static get [Symbol.species]() {
  return this;
}
```

Now, let's revisit the previous example.

```javascript
class MyArray extends Array {
  static get [Symbol.species]() { return Array; }
}

const a = new MyArray();
const b = a.map(x => x);

b instanceof MyArray // false
b instanceof Array // true
```

In the code above, the derived object generated by `a.map(x => x)` is not an instance of `MyArray`, but directly an instance of `Array`.

Here is another example.

```javascript
class T1 extends Promise {
}

class T2 extends Promise {
  static get [Symbol.species]() {
    return Promise;
  }
}

new T1(r => r()).then(v => v) instanceof T1 // true
new T2(r => r()).then(v => v) instanceof T2 // false
```

In the code above, `T2` defines a `Symbol.species` property while `T1` does not. The result is that when creating derived objects (via the `then` method), `T1` calls its own constructor while `T2` calls `Promise`'s constructor.

In summary, the purpose of `Symbol.species` is that when an instance object needs to call its own constructor again during execution, it will use the constructor specified by this property. Its main use case is when class libraries are modified versions of a base class, and the author may want inherited methods to return instances of the base class rather than the subclass.

### Symbol.match

An object's `Symbol.match` property points to a function. When `str.match(myObject)` is executed, if this property exists, it will be called and its return value will be returned.

```javascript
String.prototype.match(regexp)
// Equivalent to
regexp[Symbol.match](this)

class MyMatcher {
  [Symbol.match](string) {
    return 'hello world'.indexOf(string);
  }
}

'e'.match(new MyMatcher()) // 1
```

### Symbol.replace

An object's `Symbol.replace` property points to a method. When the object is called by `String.prototype.replace`, this method's return value is returned.

```javascript
String.prototype.replace(searchValue, replaceValue)
// Equivalent to
searchValue[Symbol.replace](this, replaceValue)
```

Here is an example.

```javascript
const x = {};
x[Symbol.replace] = (...s) => console.log(s);

'Hello'.replace(x, 'World') // ["Hello", "World"]
```

The `Symbol.replace` method receives two arguments: the first is the object on which the `replace` method is acting (in the example above, `Hello`), and the second is the replacement value (in the example above, `World`).

### Symbol.search

An object's `Symbol.search` property points to a method. When the object is called by `String.prototype.search`, this method's return value is returned.

```javascript
String.prototype.search(regexp)
// Equivalent to
regexp[Symbol.search](this)

class MySearch {
  constructor(value) {
    this.value = value;
  }
  [Symbol.search](string) {
    return string.indexOf(this.value);
  }
}
'foobar'.search(new MySearch('foo')) // 0
```

### Symbol.split

An object's `Symbol.split` property points to a method. When the object is called by `String.prototype.split`, this method's return value is returned.

```javascript
String.prototype.split(separator, limit)
// Equivalent to
separator[Symbol.split](this, limit)
```

Here is an example.

```javascript
class MySplitter {
  constructor(value) {
    this.value = value;
  }
  [Symbol.split](string) {
    let index = string.indexOf(this.value);
    if (index === -1) {
      return string;
    }
    return [
      string.substr(0, index),
      string.substr(index + this.value.length)
    ];
  }
}

'foobar'.split(new MySplitter('foo'))
// ['', 'bar']

'foobar'.split(new MySplitter('bar'))
// ['foo', '']

'foobar'.split(new MySplitter('baz'))
// 'foobar'
```

The method above uses `Symbol.split` to redefine the behavior of the string object's `split` method.

### Symbol.iterator

An object's `Symbol.iterator` property points to the object's default iterator method.

```javascript
const myIterable = {};
myIterable[Symbol.iterator] = function* () {
  yield 1;
  yield 2;
  yield 3;
};

[...myIterable] // [1, 2, 3]
```

When an object is iterated with a `for...of` loop, the `Symbol.iterator` method is called, returning the object's default iterator. For details, see the "Iterator and for...of Loop" chapter.

```javascript
class Collection {
  *[Symbol.iterator]() {
    let i = 0;
    while(this[i] !== undefined) {
      yield this[i];
      ++i;
    }
  }
}

let myCollection = new Collection();
myCollection[0] = 1;
myCollection[1] = 2;

for(let value of myCollection) {
  console.log(value);
}
// 1
// 2
```

### Symbol.toPrimitive

An object's `Symbol.toPrimitive` property points to a method. When the object is converted to a primitive type value, this method is called, returning the corresponding primitive type value of the object.

`Symbol.toPrimitive` receives a string argument indicating the current operation mode. There are three modes:

- Number: the context requires conversion to a number
- String: the context requires conversion to a string
- Default: the context can convert to either a number or a string

```javascript
let obj = {
  [Symbol.toPrimitive](hint) {
    switch (hint) {
      case 'number':
        return 123;
      case 'string':
        return 'str';
      case 'default':
        return 'default';
      default:
        throw new Error();
     }
   }
};

2 * obj // 246
3 + obj // '3default'
obj == 'default' // true
String(obj) // 'str'
```

### Symbol.toStringTag

An object's `Symbol.toStringTag` property points to a method. When `Object.prototype.toString` is called on the object and this property exists, its return value will appear in the string returned by `toString`, representing the object's type. In other words, this property can be used to customize the string after `object` in `[object Object]` or `[object Array]`.

```javascript
// Example 1
({[Symbol.toStringTag]: 'Foo'}.toString())
// "[object Foo]"

// Example 2
class Collection {
  get [Symbol.toStringTag]() {
    return 'xxx';
  }
}
let x = new Collection();
Object.prototype.toString.call(x) // "[object xxx]"
```

The `Symbol.toStringTag` property values for built-in objects added in ES6 are as follows:

- `JSON[Symbol.toStringTag]`: 'JSON'
- `Math[Symbol.toStringTag]`: 'Math'
- Module object `M[Symbol.toStringTag]`: 'Module'
- `ArrayBuffer.prototype[Symbol.toStringTag]`: 'ArrayBuffer'
- `DataView.prototype[Symbol.toStringTag]`: 'DataView'
- `Map.prototype[Symbol.toStringTag]`: 'Map'
- `Promise.prototype[Symbol.toStringTag]`: 'Promise'
- `Set.prototype[Symbol.toStringTag]`: 'Set'
- `%TypedArray%.prototype[Symbol.toStringTag]`: 'Uint8Array', etc.
- `WeakMap.prototype[Symbol.toStringTag]`: 'WeakMap'
- `WeakSet.prototype[Symbol.toStringTag]`: 'WeakSet'
- `%MapIteratorPrototype%[Symbol.toStringTag]`: 'Map Iterator'
- `%SetIteratorPrototype%[Symbol.toStringTag]`: 'Set Iterator'
- `%StringIteratorPrototype%[Symbol.toStringTag]`: 'String Iterator'
- `Symbol.prototype[Symbol.toStringTag]`: 'Symbol'
- `Generator.prototype[Symbol.toStringTag]`: 'Generator'
- `GeneratorFunction.prototype[Symbol.toStringTag]`: 'GeneratorFunction'

### Symbol.unscopables

An object's `Symbol.unscopables` property points to an object. This object specifies which properties are excluded from the `with` environment when the `with` keyword is used.

```javascript
Array.prototype[Symbol.unscopables]
// {
//   copyWithin: true,
//   entries: true,
//   fill: true,
//   find: true,
//   findIndex: true,
//   includes: true,
//   keys: true
// }

Object.keys(Array.prototype[Symbol.unscopables])
// ['copyWithin', 'entries', 'fill', 'find', 'findIndex', 'includes', 'keys']
```

The code above shows that arrays have 7 properties that are excluded by the `with` statement.

```javascript
// Without unscopables
class MyClass {
  foo() { return 1; }
}

var foo = function () { return 2; };

with (MyClass.prototype) {
  foo(); // 1
}

// With unscopables
class MyClass {
  foo() { return 1; }
  get [Symbol.unscopables]() {
    return { foo: true };
  }
}

var foo = function () { return 2; };

with (MyClass.prototype) {
  foo(); // 2
}
```

The code above specifies the `Symbol.unscopables` property, which prevents the `with` block from looking for the `foo` property in the current scope, so `foo` will refer to the variable in the outer scope.
