---
title: Solving Baidu's Inability to Index Personal Blogs Hosted on GitHub
date: 2019-12-25 14:27:01
permalink: /pages/41f87d890d0a02af
categories:
  - Technology
  - Blog Setup
tags:
  - null
author:
  name: xugaoyi
  link: https://github.com/xugaoyi
---
# Solving Baidu's Inability to Index Static Blogs Hosted on GitHub

::: warning
If you're looking for this blog's setup documentation, I recommend checking the [README](https://github.com/xugaoyi/vuepress-theme-vdoing) of this repository.
:::

## Background

Since GitHub blocks Baidu's web crawlers, blogs hosted on GitHub Pages cannot be indexed by Baidu. This can be reproduced through Baidu Webmaster's `Fetch as Baidu` tool, which consistently returns 403 Forbidden errors.

<!-- more -->

## Solution

Host the blog simultaneously on both GitHub Pages and [Coding Pages](https://dev.tencent.com/) to solve the Baidu indexing problem. I discovered that Coding Pages loads particularly fast within China and gets indexed by Baidu, so I made the Coding Pages site my primary site and the GitHub Pages one a secondary site.



Steps:

1. Register a [Coding](https://dev.tencent.com/) account, create a repository, push your code to the Coding repository, and enable the Pages service.

> The git operations are similar to GitHub. If you're unfamiliar with git operations, see my other article: [Git User Manual](https://xugaoyi.com/pages/9a7ee40fc232253e/)

2. My blog project is built with VuePress, using the following auto-deployment script to push code to both GitHub and Coding simultaneously.

```sh
#!/usr/bin/env sh

# Abort on errors
set -e

# Build static files
npm run build

# Enter the built files directory
cd docs/.vuepress/dist

# github
echo 'b.xugaoyi.com' > CNAME
git init
git add -A
git commit -m 'deploy'
git push -f git@github.com:xugaoyi/blog.git master:gh-pages # Deploy to GitHub

# coding
echo 'xugaoyi.com' > CNAME
git add -A
git commit -m 'deploy'
git push -f git@git.dev.tencent.com:xugaoyi/xugaoyi.git master # Deploy to Coding

cd - # Return to the original directory
rm -rf docs/.vuepress/dist
```

> I created separate CNAME files because I wanted different custom domains for the two platforms.

3. If you have a custom domain, you can also bind it in Coding Pages. Just add a CNAME record in your DNS settings pointing to the Coding Pages site address. (If you don't have a custom domain, skip this and remove the CNAME file creation from the deployment script.)



Finally, using Baidu Webmaster's Fetch tool, I confirmed that fetching succeeded! Then I used Baidu Webmaster's [Link Submit](https://ziyuan.baidu.com/linksubmit/index) feature to submit links to Baidu. After some time, the pages may appear in Baidu search results.



### How to Check if Baidu Has Indexed Your Site

Use site:<link-address\> in the Baidu search box, like:

```
site:xugaoyi.com
```



## Related Articles

[GitHub Actions: Scheduled Code Execution for Daily Baidu Link Pushing](https://xugaoyi.com/pages/f44d2f9ad04ab8d3/)
