---
title: Built-in Objects
date: 2020-01-12 11:49:16
permalink: /pages/74d2ab3fbfeaaa68
categories:
  - JavaScript Tutorial Notes
tags:
  - JavaScript
author:
  name: xugaoyi
  link: https://github.com/xugaoyi
---


# Built-in Objects

## 1. The Object Object

## 1. Overview

JavaScript natively provides the `Object` object (note that the leading `O` is uppercase). This chapter introduces the various native methods of this object.

All other objects in JavaScript inherit from the `Object` object, that is, those objects are all instances of `Object`.

The native methods of the `Object` object fall into two categories: methods of `Object` itself and instance methods of `Object`.

**(1) Methods of the Object object itself**

So-called "methods of itself" are methods defined directly on the `Object` object.

```js
Object.print = function (o) { console.log(o) };
```

In the code above, the `print` method is defined directly on the `Object` object.

**(2) Instance methods of Object**

So-called instance methods are methods defined on the `Object` prototype object `Object.prototype`. They can be used directly by `Object` instances.

```js
Object.prototype.print = function () {
  console.log(this);
};

var obj = new Object();
obj.print() // Object
```

In the code above, `Object.prototype` defines a `print` method, and then an `Object` instance `obj` is created. `obj` directly inherits the properties and methods of `Object.prototype`, so it can call the `print` method directly via `obj.print`. In other words, the `print` method of the `obj` object is essentially calling the `Object.prototype.print` method.

For a detailed explanation of the prototype object `object.prototype`, see the chapter "Object-Oriented Programming". Here it is enough to know that all properties and methods defined on the `Object.prototype` object will be shared by all instance objects.

Below we first introduce the use of `Object` as a function, and then introduce the native methods of the `Object` object, divided into methods of the object itself (also called "static methods") and instance methods.



## 2. Object() Used as a Utility Method (Without new)

`Object()` **is itself a function** and can be used as a utility method to convert any value into an object. This method is often used to ensure that a value is definitely an object.

If the argument is empty (or `undefined` or `null`), `Object()` returns an empty object.

```js
var obj = Object() // obj => {}
// equivalent to
obj = Object(undefined)
obj = Object(null)
obj instanceof Object // true
```

The code above converts `undefined` and `null` into objects, resulting in an empty object `obj`.

The `instanceof` operator is used to verify whether an object is an instance of a specified constructor. `obj instanceof Object` returns `true`, indicating that the `obj` object is an instance of `Object`.



If the argument is a primitive value, the `Object` method converts it into an instance of the corresponding wrapper object (see the chapter "Wrapper Objects for Primitive Types").

```js
// wrapper object instance

var obj = Object(1) // obj => Number{1}
obj instanceof Object // true     instanceof determines the object type
obj instanceof Number // true


var obj = Object('foo') // obj => String{‘foo’}
obj instanceof Object // true
obj instanceof String // true

var obj = Object(true) // obj => Boolean{‘foo’}
obj instanceof Object // true
obj instanceof Boolean // true

```

In the code above, the arguments to the `Object` function are various primitive values, and converting them to objects yields the wrapper objects corresponding to those primitive values.





If the argument to the `Object` method is an object, it always returns that object, i.e. no conversion is done.

```js
var arr = []
var obj = Object(arr) // obj => []
obj === arr // true


var value = {}
var obj = Object(value) // obj => {}
obj === value // true


var fn = function() {}
var obj = Object(fn) // obj => function(){}
obj === fn // true
```



Using this fact, you can write a function that **determines whether a variable is an object**.

```
function isObject(value){
    return value === Object(value)
}

isObject([]) // true
isObject({}) // true
isObject('123') // false
```



## 3. The Object Constructor (Creating with new)

The primary use of the `Object` constructor is to **create new objects** directly with it.

```js
var obj = new Object() // equivalent to var obj = {}
```

> Note that creating a new object with the form `var obj = new Object()` is equivalent to the literal form `var obj = {}`. In other words, the latter is just a shorthand for the former.



The use of the `Object` constructor is very similar to the utility method, almost identical. When used, it can accept one argument: if that argument is an object, it returns the object directly; if it is a primitive value, it returns the wrapper object corresponding to that value (see the chapter "Wrapper Objects").

```
var o1 = {a: 1};
var o2 = new Object(o1);
o1 === o2 // true

var obj = new Object(123);
obj instanceof Number // true
```

Although the usage is similar, the semantics of `Object(value)` and `new Object(value)` are different: `Object(value)` means converting `value` into an object, while `new Object(value)` means creating a new object whose value is `value`.



## 4. Static Methods of Object

So-called "static methods" are methods **defined on the `Object` object itself**.

### Object.keys()

Both the `Object.keys()` method and the `Object.getOwnPropertyNames()` method are used to iterate over the properties of an object.

The argument of the `Object.keys()` method is an object, and it returns an array. The members of this array are all the **property names** that belong to the object itself (not inherited).



```js
var obj = {
    p1: 123,
    p2: 456
}

Object.keys(obj) // ['p1','p2']  note these are property names
```

### Object.getOwnPropertyNames()

The `Object.getOwnPropertyNames` method is similar to `Object.keys`; it also accepts an object as an argument and returns an array containing all the property names belonging to the object itself.



```js
var obj = {
    p1: 123,
    p2: 456
}
Object.getOwnPropertyNames(obj) // ['p1','p2']
// getOwnPropertyNames means: get the object's own property names
```

For ordinary objects, `Object.keys()` and `Object.getOwnPropertyNames()` return the same results. They only differ when non-enumerable properties are involved. The `Object.keys` method only returns enumerable properties (see the chapter "Property Descriptor Objects"), while the `Object.getOwnPropertyNames` method also returns **non-enumerable property names**.

```js
var a = ['hello','world']
Object.keys(a) // ['0','1']  for an array, it returns the index strings
Object.getOwnPropertyNames(a) // ['0','1','length']
```

In the code above, the array's `length` property is a **non-enumerable property**, so it only appears in the result returned by the `Object.getOwnPropertyNames` method.

Since JavaScript does not provide a method to count the number of properties of an object, these two methods can be used instead.

**Get the number (length) of an object's properties**

```
var obj = {
  p1: 123,
  p2: 456
};

Object.keys(obj).length // 2
Object.getOwnPropertyNames(obj).length // 2
```

In general, you almost always use the `Object.keys` method to iterate over an object's properties.



### Other Static Methods of Object

In addition to the two methods mentioned above, `Object` has quite a few other static methods, which will be described in detail one by one later.

#### (1) Methods related to the property model of objects

- `Object.getOwnPropertyDescriptor()`: gets the descriptor object of a property.
- `Object.defineProperty()`: defines a property via a descriptor object.
- `Object.defineProperties()`: defines multiple properties via descriptor objects.

#### (2) Methods for controlling object state

- `Object.preventExtensions()`: prevents an object from being extended.
- `Object.isExtensible()`: determines whether an object is extensible.
- `Object.seal()`: prevents an object from being reconfigured.
- `Object.isSealed()`: determines whether an object is sealed.
- `Object.freeze()`: freezes an object.
- `Object.isFrozen()`: determines whether an object is frozen.

#### (3) Methods related to the prototype chain

- `Object.create()`: this method can specify the prototype object and properties, and returns a new object.
- `Object.getPrototypeOf()`: gets the `Prototype` object of an object.

Some methods are not included in this document. For more methods, see: <https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/Object>



## 5. Instance Methods of Object

In addition to static methods, quite a few methods are defined on the `Object.prototype` object. They are called instance methods, and all instances of `Object` inherit these methods.

The methods of `Object` instance objects mainly include the following six.

- `Object.prototype.valueOf()`: returns the value corresponding to the current object.
- `Object.prototype.toString()`: returns the string form corresponding to the current object.
- `Object.prototype.toLocaleString()`: returns the locale string form corresponding to the current object.
- `Object.prototype.hasOwnProperty()`: determines whether a property is the current object's own property or inherited from the prototype object.
- `Object.prototype.isPrototypeOf()`: determines whether the current object is the prototype of another object.
- `Object.prototype.propertyIsEnumerable()`: determines whether a property is enumerable.

This section introduces the first four methods; the other two will be introduced in relevant chapters later.

### Object.prototype.valueOf()

The purpose of the `valueOf` method is to return the "value" of an object; by default it **returns the object itself**.

```js
var obj = new Object()
obj.valueof() === obj //true
```

The code above compares `obj.valueOf()` with `obj` itself; the two are the same.

The main use of the `valueOf` method is that JavaScript calls this method by default during **automatic type conversion** (see the chapter "Data Type Conversion").

```js
var obj = Object()
1+obj //"1[object Object]"
```

In the code above, the object `obj` is added to the number `1`; at this point JavaScript **automatically calls** the `valueOf()` method to compute the value of `obj` and then adds it to `1`. So if you customize the `valueOf` method, you can get the result you want.

```js
var obj = new Object()
obj.valueof = function () {
    return 2
}
1 + obj // 3
```

The code above customizes the `valueOf` method of the `obj` object, so `1 + obj` yields `3`. This approach is equivalent to overriding `Object.prototype.valueOf` with the custom `obj.valueOf`.



### Object.prototype.toString()

The purpose of the `toString` method is to return the string form of an object; by default it **returns a type string**.

```js
var o1 = new Object()
o1.toString() // "[object Object]"

var o2 = {a:2}
o2.toString() // "[object Object]"
```

The code above shows that calling the `toString` method on an object returns the string `[object Object]`, which indicates the type of the object.

The string `[object Object]` itself is not very useful, but by customizing the `toString` method, you can make an object yield the string form you want during automatic type conversion.



```js
var obj = new Object()

obj.toString = function() {
    return 'hello'
}
obj + ' '+ 'world' // "hello world"
```

The code above shows that when an object is used in string addition, the `toString` method is **automatically called**. Since the `toString` method was customized, it returns the string `hello world`.

Arrays, strings, functions, and Date objects each define their own `toString` method, overriding the `Object.prototype.toString` method.

```js
[1, 2, 3].toString() // "1,2,3"

'123'.toString() // "123"

(function () {
  return 123;
}).toString()
// "function () {
//   return 123;
// }"

(new Date()).toString()
// "Tue May 10 2016 09:11:31 GMT+0800 (CST)"
```

In the code above, when arrays, strings, functions, and Date objects call the `toString` method, they do not return `[object Object]`, because they all define their own `toString` method that overrides the original method.



#### Application of toString(): Determining the Data Type

The `Object.prototype.toString` method returns the type string of an object, so it can be used to determine the type of a value.

```
var obj = {};
obj.toString() // "[object Object]"
```

The code above calls the `toString` method of an empty object, returning the string `object Object`, where the second `Object` indicates the constructor of the value. This is a very useful method for determining the data type.

Since instance objects may customize the `toString` method and override the `Object.prototype.toString` method, it is best to use the `Object.prototype.toString` method directly to obtain the type string. With the function's `call` method, you can invoke this method on any value, helping us determine the type of that value.

```
Object.prototype.toString.call(value)
```

The code above invokes the `Object.prototype.toString` method on the value `value`.

The return values of the `Object.prototype.toString` method for different data types are as follows.

- Number: returns `[object Number]`.
- String: returns `[object String]`.
- Boolean: returns `[object Boolean]`.
- undefined: returns `[object Undefined]`.
- null: returns `[object Null]`.
- Array: returns `[object Array]`.
- arguments object: returns `[object Arguments]`.
- Function: returns `[object Function]`.
- Error object: returns `[object Error]`.
- Date object: returns `[object Date]`.
- RegExp object: returns `[object RegExp]`.
- Other objects: returns `[object Object]`.

That is to say, `Object.prototype.toString` can reveal exactly what type a value is.

```js
Object.prototype.toString.call(2) // "[object Number]"
Object.prototype.toString.call('') // "[object String]"
Object.prototype.toString.call(true) // "[object Boolean]"
Object.prototype.toString.call(undefined) // "[object Undefined]"
Object.prototype.toString.call(null) // "[object Null]"
Object.prototype.toString.call(Math) // "[object Math]"
Object.prototype.toString.call({}) // "[object Object]"
Object.prototype.toString.call([]) // "[object Array]"
```

Using this feature, you can write a type-checking function that is more accurate than the `typeof` operator.

```js
var type = function (o){
    var s = Object.prototype.toString.call(o)
    return s.match(/\[object (.*?)\]/)[1].toLowerCase()
}
type({}); // "object"
type([]); // "array"
type(5); // "number"
type(null); // "null"
type(); // "undefined"
type(/abcd/); // "regex"
type(new Date()); // "date"
```

Building on the `type` function above, you can also add methods that specifically check for a particular type of data.

```js
var type = function (o){
  var s = Object.prototype.toString.call(o);
  return s.match(/\[object (.*?)\]/)[1].toLowerCase();
};

['Null',
 'Undefined',
 'Object',
 'Array',
 'String',
 'Number',
 'Boolean',
 'Function',
 'RegExp'
].forEach(function (t) {
  type['is' + t] = function (o) {
    return type(o) === t.toLowerCase();
  };
});

type.isObject({}) // true
type.isNumber(NaN) // true
type.isRegExp(/abc/) // true
```

### Object.prototype.toLocaleString()

The `Object.prototype.toLocaleString` method returns the same result as `toString`; it also returns the string form of a value.

```js
var obj = {};
obj.toString(obj) // "[object Object]"
obj.toLocaleString(obj) // "[object Object]"
```

The main purpose of this method is to leave an interface so that various different objects can implement their own version of `toLocaleString` to return values specific to certain locales.

```js
var person = {
  toString: function () {
    return 'Henry Norman Bethune';
  },
  toLocaleString: function () {
    return '白求恩';
  }
};

person.toString() // Henry Norman Bethune
person.toLocaleString() // 白求恩
```

In the code above, the `toString()` method returns the general string form of the object, while the `toLocaleString()` method returns the locale-specific string form. (Here `白求恩` is the Chinese name for Bethune, kept to demonstrate the localized output.)

Currently, mainly three objects customize the `toLocaleString` method.

- Array.prototype.toLocaleString()
- Number.prototype.toLocaleString()
- Date.prototype.toLocaleString()

For example, the `toString` and `toLocaleString` return values of a date instance object are different, and the return value of `toLocaleString` depends on the user's configured locale.

```js
var date = new Date();
date.toString() // "Sun Oct 06 2019 15:50:04 GMT+0800 (China Standard Time)"
date.toLocaleString() // "2019/10/6 3:50:04 PM"
```

### Object.prototype.hasOwnProperty()

The `Object.prototype.hasOwnProperty` method accepts a string as an argument and returns a boolean indicating whether the instance object itself has that property.

**Check whether an object contains a certain property, returning a boolean**

```
var obj = {
  p: 123
};

obj.hasOwnProperty('p') // true
obj.hasOwnProperty('toString') // false
```

In the code above, the object `obj` itself has the `p` property, so it returns `true`. The `toString` property is inherited, so it returns `false`.





## 2. Property Descriptor Objects

## 1. Overview

JavaScript provides an internal data structure used to describe the properties of an object and control their behavior, such as whether a property is writable, enumerable, etc. This internal data structure is called a "property descriptor object" (attributes object). Each property has its own corresponding property descriptor object, which stores some meta-information about that property.

Below is an example of a property descriptor object.

```js
{
  value: 123, // the value of the property, defaults to undefined
  writable: false, // whether the value can be changed, defaults to true
  enumerable: true, // whether the property is enumerable, defaults to true
  configurable: false, // configurability of the property descriptor, defaults to true
  get: undefined, // the getter function of the property, defaults to undefined
  set: undefined // the setter function of the property, defaults to undefined
}
```

A property descriptor object provides 6 meta-properties.

(1) `value`

`value` is the value of the property, defaulting to `undefined`.

(2) `writable`

`writable` is a boolean indicating whether the property value (value) can be changed (i.e. whether it is writable), defaulting to `true`.

(3) `enumerable`

`enumerable` is a boolean indicating whether the property is enumerable, defaulting to `true`. If set to `false`, it causes certain operations (such as the `for...in` loop and `Object.keys()`) to skip the property.

(4) `configurable`

`configurable` is a boolean indicating configurability, defaulting to `true`. If set to `false`, it prevents certain operations from modifying the property, such as being unable to delete the property and being unable to change the property's descriptor object (except for the `value` property). In other words, the `configurable` property controls the writability of the property descriptor object.

(5) `get`

`get` is a function representing the getter of the property, defaulting to `undefined`.

(6) `set`

`set` is a function representing the setter of the property, defaulting to `undefined`.

## 2. Object.getOwnPropertyDescriptor()

The `Object.getOwnPropertyDescriptor()` method can **get the property descriptor object**. Its first argument is the target object, and its second argument is a string corresponding to a property name of the target object.

```js
var obj = {p:'a'}

Object.getOwnPropertyDescriptor(obj,'p')
// Object { value: "a",  // the value 'a'
//   writable: true, // the value 'a' can be overwritten
//   enumerable: true, // the 'p' property is enumerable
//   configurable: true // configurability of the property descriptor
// }


// getOwnPropertyDescriptor means: get the object's own property descriptor
```

Note that the `Object.getOwnPropertyDescriptor()` method can only be used on the object's own properties, not on inherited properties.

```js
var obj = { p: 'a' };

Object.getOwnPropertyDescriptor(obj, 'toString')
// undefined
```

In the code above, `toString` is a property inherited by the `obj` object, which `Object.getOwnPropertyDescriptor()` cannot retrieve.

## 3. Object.getOwnPropertyNames()

The `Object.getOwnPropertyNames` method returns an array whose members are the property names of all the argument object's own properties, regardless of whether the property is enumerable.

**Return all property names of an object**

```js
var obj = Object.defineProperties({}, {
  p1: { value: 1, enumerable: true },
  p2: { value: 2, enumerable: false }
});

Object.getOwnPropertyNames(obj)
// ["p1", "p2"]
```

In the code above, `obj.p1` is enumerable and `obj.p2` is non-enumerable. `Object.getOwnPropertyNames` returns both of them.

This is different from the behavior of `Object.keys`, which only returns all property names of the object's own enumerable properties.

```js
Object.keys([]) // []
Object.getOwnPropertyNames([]) // [ 'length' ]

Object.keys(Object.prototype) // []
Object.getOwnPropertyNames(Object.prototype)
 /*[
	"constructor",   // constructor
    "__defineGetter__",
    "__defineSetter__",
    "hasOwnProperty",  // check a property name
    "__lookupGetter__",
    "__lookupSetter__",
    "isPrototypeOf",
    "propertyIsEnumerable",
    "toString",  // return the type string
    "valueOf",
    "__proto__",  // prototype chain
    "toLocaleString"
   ]
*/
```

In the code above, the array's own `length` property is non-enumerable, so `Object.keys` does not return it. In the second example, `Object.prototype` is also an object that all instance objects inherit, and its own properties are all non-enumerable.

## 4. Object.defineProperty() and Object.defineProperties()

The `Object.defineProperty()` method allows you to define or modify a property via a property descriptor object, and then returns the modified object. Its usage is as follows.

```js
Object.defineProperty(object, propertyName, attributesObject)
```

The `Object.defineProperty` method accepts three arguments, in order:

- object: the object the property belongs to
- propertyName: a string representing the property name
- attributesObject: the property descriptor object

For example, defining `obj.p` can be written as follows.

```js
var obj = Object.defineProperty({}, 'p', {
  value: 123,
  writable: false, // set to false, cannot be overwritten
  enumerable: true, // enumerable
  configurable: false // the property descriptor cannot be reconfigured
});

obj.p // 123

obj.p = 246; // since writable is false, the overwrite has no effect
obj.p // 123
```

In the code above, the `Object.defineProperty()` method defines the `obj.p` property. Since the `writable` property of the property descriptor object is `false`, the `obj.p` property is not writable. Note that the first argument to the `Object.defineProperty` method here is `{}` (a newly created empty object); the `p` property is defined directly on this empty object, and then the object is returned. This is a common use of `Object.defineProperty()`.

If the property already exists, the `Object.defineProperty()` method is equivalent to updating the property's descriptor object.

If you want to **define or modify multiple properties at once**, you can use the `Object.defineProperties()` method.

```js
var obj = Object.defineProperties({}, {
  p1: { value: 123, enumerable: true },
  p2: { value: 'abc', enumerable: true },
  p3: { get: function () { return this.p1 + this.p2 },
    enumerable:true,
    configurable:true
  }
});

obj.p1 // 123
obj.p2 // "abc"
obj.p3 // "123abc"
```

In the code above, `Object.defineProperties()` defines three properties of the `obj` object at once. Among them, the `p3` property defines a getter function `get`, meaning that every time the property is read, this getter function is called.

**Note** that once a getter function `get` (or setter function `set`) is defined, you cannot set the `writable` property to `true` or define a `value` property at the same time, otherwise an error is thrown.

```js
var obj = {};

Object.defineProperty(obj, 'p', {
  value: 123,
  get: function() { return 456; }
});
// TypeError: Invalid property.
// A property cannot both have accessors and be writable or have a value

Object.defineProperty(obj, 'p', {
  writable: true,
  get: function() { return 456; }
});
// TypeError: Invalid property descriptor.
// Cannot both specify accessors and a value or writable attribute
```

In the code above, defining both a `get` property and a `value` property, as well as setting the `writable` property to `true`, throws an error.

In the property descriptor objects passed to `Object.defineProperty()` and `Object.defineProperties()`, the default values of the three properties `writable`, `configurable`, and `enumerable` are all `false`.

```js
var obj = {};
Object.defineProperty(obj, 'foo', {});
Object.getOwnPropertyDescriptor(obj, 'foo')
// {  // default values
//   value: undefined,
//   writable: false,
//   enumerable: false,
//   configurable: false
// }
```

In the code above, an empty property descriptor object is used when defining `obj.foo`, so you can see the default values of each meta-property.

## 5. Object.prototype.propertyIsEnumerable()

The `propertyIsEnumerable()` method of an instance object returns a boolean used to **determine whether a property is enumerable**. Note that this method can only be used to check the object's own properties; for inherited properties it always returns `false`.

```js
var obj = {};
obj.p = 123;

obj.propertyIsEnumerable('p') // true
obj.propertyIsEnumerable('toString') // false
```

In the code above, `obj.p` is enumerable, while `obj.toString` is an inherited property.



## 6. Meta-properties

The various properties of a property descriptor object are called "meta-properties" because they can be seen as properties that control a property.

### value: the Value of the Target Property

The `value` property is the value of the target property.

```js
var obj = {};
obj.p = 123;

Object.getOwnPropertyDescriptor(obj, 'p').value
// 123

Object.defineProperty(obj, 'p', { value: 246 });
obj.p // 246
```

The code above is an example of reading or overwriting `obj.p` via the `value` property.



### writable: Writability

The `writable` property is a boolean that determines whether the value (value) of the target property can be changed.

```js
var obj = {};

Object.defineProperty(obj, 'a', {
  value: 37,
  writable: false
});

obj.a // 37
obj.a = 25; // writability is false, the value cannot be modified
obj.a // 37
```

In the code above, the `writable` property of `obj.a` is `false`. So changing the value of `obj.a` has no effect.

**Note** that in normal mode, assigning to a property whose `writable` is `false` does not throw an error; it just silently fails. However, in strict mode it throws an error, even when reassigning the same value to the `a` property.

```
'use strict';
var obj = {};

Object.defineProperty(obj, 'a', {
  value: 37,
  writable: false
});

obj.a = 37;
// Uncaught TypeError: Cannot assign to read only property 'a' of object
```

The code above is in strict mode, where any assignment to `obj.a` throws an error.

If the `writable` of a property on the prototype object is `false`, then child objects cannot customize this property.

```js
var proto = Object.defineProperty({}, 'foo', {
  value: 'a',
  writable: false
});

var obj = Object.create(proto); // the obj object inherits the proto object

obj.foo = 'b';
obj.foo // 'a'
```

In the code above, `proto` is the prototype object, and its `foo` property is not writable. The `obj` object inherits `proto` and can no longer customize this property either. In strict mode, doing so would also throw an error.

However, there is a workaround: bypass this restriction by overriding the property descriptor object. The reason is that in this case the prototype chain is completely ignored.

```js
var proto = Object.defineProperty({}, 'foo', {
  value: 'a',
  writable: false
});

var obj = Object.create(proto);
Object.defineProperty(obj, 'foo', {
  value: 'b'
});

obj.foo // "b"
```



### enumerable: Enumerability

`enumerable` (enumerability) returns a boolean indicating whether the target property is enumerable.

In early versions of JavaScript, the `for...in` loop was based on the `in` operator. As we know, the `in` operator returns `true` regardless of whether a property is the object's own or inherited.

```js
var obj = {};
'toString' in obj // true
```

In the code above, `toString` is not the `obj` object's own property, but the `in` operator still returns `true`, which causes the `toString` property to also be iterated by the `for...in` loop.

This is clearly not very reasonable, so the concept of "enumerability" was later introduced. Only enumerable properties are iterated by the `for...in` loop, and it was also stipulated that native properties inherited by instance objects, such as `toString`, are all non-enumerable, thus ensuring the usability of the `for...in` loop.

Specifically, if a property's `enumerable` is `false`, the following three operations will not access that property.

- the `for..in` loop
- the `Object.keys` method
- the `JSON.stringify` method

Therefore, `enumerable` can be used to set "secret" properties.

```js
var obj = {};

Object.defineProperty(obj, 'x', {
  value: 123,
  enumerable: false
});

obj.x // 123

for (var key in obj) {
  console.log(key);
}
// undefined

Object.keys(obj)  // []
JSON.stringify(obj) // "{}"
```

In the code above, the `enumerable` of the `obj.x` property is `false`, so ordinary iteration operations cannot access this property, making it somewhat like a "secret" property. But it is not a truly private property; you can still access its value directly.

Note that the `for...in` loop includes inherited properties, while the `Object.keys` method does not. If you need to get all of an object's own properties, regardless of enumerability, you can use the `Object.getOwnPropertyNames` method.

In addition, the `JSON.stringify` method excludes properties whose `enumerable` is `false`. Sometimes **you can take advantage of this. If you want to exclude certain properties from the JSON output of an object, you can set the `enumerable` of those properties to `false`.**



### configurable: Configurability

`configurable` (configurability) returns a boolean that determines **whether the property descriptor object can be modified**. In other words, when `configurable` is `false`, none of `value`, `writable`, `enumerable`, and `configurable` can be modified.

```js
var obj = Object.defineProperty({}, 'p', {
  value: 1,
  writable: false,
  enumerable: false,
  configurable: false
});

Object.defineProperty(obj, 'p', {value: 2})
// TypeError: Cannot redefine property: p

Object.defineProperty(obj, 'p', {writable: true})
// TypeError: Cannot redefine property: p

Object.defineProperty(obj, 'p', {enumerable: true})
// TypeError: Cannot redefine property: p

Object.defineProperty(obj, 'p', {configurable: true})
// TypeError: Cannot redefine property: p
```

In the code above, the `configurable` of `obj.p` is `false`. So changing `value`, `writable`, `enumerable`, or `configurable` all result in errors.

**Note** that for `writable`, only changing from `false` to `true` throws an error; changing from `true` to `false` is allowed.

```js
var obj = Object.defineProperty({}, 'p', {
  writable: true,
  configurable: false
});

Object.defineProperty(obj, 'p', {writable: false})
// modification succeeds
```

As for `value`, modification is allowed as long as either `writable` or `configurable` is `true`.

```js
var o1 = Object.defineProperty({}, 'p', {
  value: 1,
  writable: true,
  configurable: false
});

Object.defineProperty(o1, 'p', {value: 2})
// modification succeeds

var o2 = Object.defineProperty({}, 'p', {
  value: 1,
  writable: false,
  configurable: true
});

Object.defineProperty(o2, 'p', {value: 2})
// modification succeeds
```

In addition, when `writable` is `false`, directly assigning to the target property does not throw an error, but it will not succeed.

```js
var obj = Object.defineProperty({}, 'p', {
  value: 1,
  writable: false,
  configurable: false
});

obj.p = 2;
obj.p // 1
```

In the code above, the `writable` of `obj.p` is `false`, so directly assigning to `obj.p` has no effect. In strict mode, it would also throw an error.

Configurability determines whether the target property can be deleted (delete).

```js
var obj = Object.defineProperties({}, {
  p1: { value: 1, configurable: true },
  p2: { value: 2, configurable: false }
});

delete obj.p1 // true
delete obj.p2 // false

obj.p1 // undefined
obj.p2 // 2
```

In the code above, the `configurable` of `obj.p1` is `true`, so it can be deleted, while `obj.p2` cannot be deleted.



## 7. Accessors (get and set)

In addition to direct definition, properties can also be defined with accessors. Among them, the setter function is called `setter` and uses the `set` property of the property descriptor object; the getter function is called `getter` and uses the `get` property of the property descriptor object.

**Once accessors are defined for a target property, the corresponding function is executed whenever the property is accessed**. Using this feature, you can implement many advanced features, such as forbidding assignment to a property.

```js
var obj = Object.defineProperty({}, 'p', {
  get: function () { // executed when getting the property
    return 'getter' // this effectively defines the value of property p; if get is set, value cannot be set
  },
  set: function (value) { // executed when setting the property
    console.log('setter: ' + value);
  }
});

obj.p // "getter"
obj.p = 123 // "setter: 123"
```

In the code above, `obj.p` defines `get` and `set` properties. When `obj.p` is read, `get` is called; when it is assigned, `set` is called.



JavaScript also provides **another way to write** accessors.

```js
var obj = {
    get p(){ // equivalent to creating a p property on the obj object and assigning it 'getter'
        return 'getter'
    },
    ser p(value){
        console.log('setter'+value)
    }
}
```

The notation above is equivalent to defining a property descriptor object, and it is more widely used.

Note that the getter function `get` cannot accept arguments, and the setter function `set` can accept only one argument (i.e. the value of the property).

Accessors are often used in situations where the value of a property depends on the internal data of the object.

```js
var obj ={
  $n : 5,
  get next() { return this.$n++ },
  set next(n) {
    if (n >= this.$n) this.$n = n;
    else throw new Error('the new value must be greater than the current value');
  }
};

obj.next // 5

obj.next = 10;
obj.next // 10

obj.next = 5;
// Uncaught Error: the new value must be greater than the current value
```

In the code above, both the setter and getter of the `next` property depend on the internal property `$n`.

> The Vue framework implements data reactivity through accessors.



## 8. Copying Objects

Sometimes we need to copy all the properties of one object to another object, which can be done with the following method.

```js
var extend = function (to, from){
    for(var property in from) {
        to[property] = from[property]
    }
    return to
}
extend({}, {a: 1}) // {a:1}
```

The problem with the method above is that when it encounters a property defined by accessors, it only copies the property and its value, not the accessors.

```
extend({}, {
  get a() { return 1 }
})
// {a: 1}   // the get method was not copied here
```

To solve this problem, we can copy properties via the `Object.defineProperty` method.

```js
var extend = function (to, from){
    for(var property in from){
    	if(!from.hasOwnProperty()) continue // filter out inherited properties; continue ends this iteration and continues the loop
        Object.defineProperty(
            to,
            property,
            Object.getOwnPropertyDescriptor(from,property)
        )
    }
    return to
}
extend({},{get a(){return 1}}) // {get a(){return 1}}
```

In the code above, the `hasOwnProperty` line is used to filter out inherited properties; otherwise an error might be thrown, because `Object.getOwnPropertyDescriptor` cannot read the property descriptor object of an inherited property.





## 9. Controlling the Read/Write State of an Object

Sometimes you need to **freeze the read/write state of an object to prevent it from being changed**.

JavaScript provides three freezing methods:

* The weakest is `Object.preventExtensions` (cannot add, but can delete and modify)

* Next is `Object.seal` (cannot add or delete, but can modify)

* The strongest is `Object.freeze` (cannot add, delete, or modify)



### Object.preventExtensions(): Prevent Additions

```js
var obj = new Object()
Object.preventExtensions(obj) // preventExtensions means: prevent extension
Object.defineProperty(obj,'p',{
    value: 'hello'
}) // TypeError:cannot define property:p, object is not extensible

obj.p = 1
obj.p // undefined
```

In the code above, after `Object.preventExtensions` is applied to the `obj` object, no new properties can be added.



### Object.isExtensible(): Is It Extensible?

The `Object.isExtensible` method is used to **check whether the `Object.preventExtensions` method has been applied to an object**. That is, it checks whether properties can be added to an object.

```js
var obj = new Object()
Object.isExtensible(obj) // true    isExtensible means: is it extensible?
Object.preventExtensions(obj)
Object.isExtensible(obj) // false
```

In the code above, after the `Object.preventExtensions` method is applied to the `obj` object, using the `Object.isExtensible` method returns `false`, indicating that no new properties can be added.



### Object.seal(): Seal

The `Object.seal` method makes an object **unable to add new properties or delete old properties.**

```js
var obj = {p: 'hello'}
Object.seal(obj) // seal means: seal

delete obj.p // deleting a property has no effect
obj.p // hello

obj.p = 'hi' // the value can be modified
obj.p // hi

obj.x = 'world' // adding a property has no effect
obj.x // undefined
```

In the code above, after the `obj` object executes the `Object.seal` method, no new properties can be added and no old properties can be deleted.

`Object.seal` essentially sets the `configurable` property of the property descriptor object to `false`, so the property descriptor object can no longer be changed.

```js
var obj = {p: 'a'}

Object.getOwnPropertyDescriptor(obj, 'p')
// Object {
//   value: "a",
//   writable: true,
//   enumerable: true,
//   configurable: true
// }

Object.seal(obj)

Object.getOwnPropertyDescriptor(obj, 'p')
// Object {
//   value: "a",
//   writable: true,
//   enumerable: true,
//   configurable: false
// }

Object.defineProperty(obj,'p',{
    enumerable:
})
// TypeError: Cannot redefine property: p
```

In the code above, after using the `Object.seal` method, the `configurable` property of the property descriptor object becomes `false`, and then changing the `enumerable` property throws an error.

`Object.seal` only forbids adding or deleting properties; it does not affect modifying the value of a property.

```
var obj = { p: 'a' };
Object.seal(obj);
obj.p = 'b';
obj.p // 'b'
```

In the code above, the `Object.seal` method has no effect on the `value` of the `p` property, because at this point the writability of the `p` property is determined by `writable`.

### Object.isSealed(): Is It Sealed?

The `Object.isSealed` method is used to **check whether the `Object.seal` method has been applied to an object**.

```js
var obj = {p:'a'}
Object.seal(obj)
Object.isSealed(obj) // true   isSealed means: is it sealed?
```

At this point, the `Object.isExtensible` method also returns `false`.

```js
var obj = { p: 'a' };

Object.seal(obj);
Object.isExtensible(obj) // false
```

> isSealed is true means it is sealed. isExtensible is false means it is not extensible.



### Object.freeze(): Freeze

The `Object.freeze` method can make an object **unable to add new properties, unable to delete old properties, and unable to change property values**, effectively turning the object into a constant.

```js
var obj = {p:'hello'}
Object.freeze(obj)

obj.p = 'world'
obj.p // hello

obj.t = 'hello'
obj.t // undefined

delete obj.p // false
obj.p // hello
```

In the code above, after applying `Object.freeze()` to the `obj` object, modifying properties, adding properties, and deleting properties all have no effect. These operations do not throw errors; they just silently fail. In strict mode, they would throw errors.



### Object.isFrozen(): Is It Frozen?

The `Object.isFrozen` method is used to **check whether the `Object.freeze` method has been applied to an object.**

```js
var obj = {
  p: 'hello'
};

Object.freeze(obj);
Object.isFrozen(obj) // true // it is frozen
```



After using the `Object.freeze` method, `Object.isSealed` returns `true` and `Object.isExtensible` returns `false`.

```js
var obj = {
  p: 'hello'
};

Object.freeze(obj);

Object.isSealed(obj) // true // it is sealed
Object.isExtensible(obj) // false // it is not extensible
```

One **use** of `Object.isFrozen` is to confirm that an object has not been frozen before assigning to its properties.

```js
var obj = {
  p: 'hello'
};

Object.freeze(obj);

if (!Object.isFrozen(obj)) {
  obj.p = 'world';
}
```

In the code above, after confirming that `obj` has not been frozen, assigning to its properties will not throw an error.



### Limitations

The three methods above for locking down an object's writability have a **loophole**: **you can add properties to the object by changing the prototype object**.

```js
var obj = new Object();
Object.preventExtensions(obj);

var proto = Object.getPrototypeOf(obj); // get the prototype object
proto.t = 'hello';
obj.t
// hello
```

In the code above, the `obj` object itself cannot have new properties added, but you can add properties to its prototype object, and they can still be read on `obj`.

One solution is to freeze the prototype of `obj` as well.

```js
var obj = new Object();
Object.preventExtensions(obj);

var proto = Object.getPrototypeOf(obj);
Object.preventExtensions(proto);

proto.t = 'hello';
obj.t // undefined
```

**Another limitation** is that if a property value is an object, the methods above can only freeze the object the property points to; they cannot freeze the content of the object itself.

```js
var obj = {
  foo: 1,
  bar: ['a', 'b']
};
Object.freeze(obj);

obj.bar.push('c');
obj.bar // ["a", "b", "c"]
```

In the code above, the `obj.bar` property points to an array. After the `obj` object is frozen, this reference cannot be changed (i.e. it cannot point to another value), but the array it points to can be changed.



## 3. The Array Object



## 1. The Array Constructor

`Array` is a native object of JavaScript and also a constructor, which can be used to create new arrays.

```js
var arr = new Array(2); // Array is a native object and also a constructor; 2 means create 2 members
arr.length // 2
arr // [ empty x 2 ]
```

In the code above, the argument `2` to the `Array` constructor means creating an array with two members, each position being an empty value.

If `new` is not used, the result is the same.

```js
var arr = new Array(2);
// equivalent to
var arr = Array(2);
```

The `Array` constructor has a major **flaw**: different arguments cause it to behave inconsistently.

```js
// with no arguments, returns an empty array
new Array() // []

// a single positive integer argument indicates the length of the new array
new Array(1) // [ empty ]
new Array(2) // [ empty x 2 ]

// a non-positive-integer numeric argument throws an error
new Array(3.2) // RangeError: Invalid array length
new Array(-3) // RangeError: Invalid array length

// a single non-numeric value (such as a string, boolean, object, etc.) as an argument
// becomes a member of the new array
new Array('abc') // ['abc']
new Array([1]) // [Array[1]]

// with multiple arguments, all arguments become members of the new array
new Array(1, 2) // [1, 2]
new Array('a', 'b', 'c') // ['a', 'b', 'c']
```

As you can see, `Array` as a constructor behaves very inconsistently. Therefore, it is not recommended for creating new arrays; using array literals directly is a better practice.

```js
// bad
var arr = new Array(1, 2);

// good
var arr = [1, 2];
```

Note that if the argument is a positive integer, the members of the returned array are all empty slots. Although reading them returns `undefined`, in fact there is no value at those positions. You can read the `length` property, but you cannot get the keys.

```js
var a = new Array(3);
var b = [undefined, undefined, undefined];

a.length // 3
b.length // 3

a[0] // undefined
b[0] // undefined

0 in a // false  // when the in operator is used on an array, the left operand is the array index
0 in b // true
```

In the code above, `a` is an empty array of length 3, and `b` is an array whose three members are all `undefined`. When reading the key values, both `a` and `b` return `undefined`, but `a`'s key positions are empty, while `b`'s key positions have values.

## 2. Static Methods

### Array.isArray()

The `Array.isArray` method returns a boolean indicating whether the argument is an array. It makes up for the shortcomings of the `typeof` operator.

```js
var arr = [1,2,3]
typeof arr // object // typeof returns object
Array.isArray(arr)// true
```

In the code above, the `typeof` operator can only show that the array's type is `Object`, while the `Array.isArray` method can recognize an array.

## 3. Instance Methods

### valueOf(): the Original Array, toString(): Convert to String

The `valueOf` method is a method that all objects have, representing evaluating the object. Different objects have different `valueOf` methods; the `valueOf` method of an array **returns the array itself**.

```js
var arr = [1,2,3]
arr.valueOf() // [1,2,3]
```

The `toString` method is also a generic method of objects; the `toString` method of an array returns the string form of the array.

```js
var arr = [1, 2, 3];
arr.toString() // "1,2,3"

var arr = [1, 2, 3, [4, 5, 6]];
arr.toString() // "1,2,3,4,5,6"
```



### push(): Add to the End, pop(): Remove from the End

The `push` method is used to **add one or more elements to the end of an array** and returns the array length after the new elements are added. Note that this method changes the original array.

```js
var arr=[]
arr.push(1) // 1
arr.push('a') // 2
arr.push(true,{}) // 4
arr // [1,'a',true,{}]

// note: the push() method returns the array length after adding, and changes the original array
```

The code above uses the `push` method to add four members to the array.



The `pop` method is used to **remove the last element of an array** and returns that element. Note that this method changes the original array.

```js
var arr = ['a','b','c']
arr.pop() // 'c'  removes the last element and returns it
arr // ['a','b']
```

Using the `pop` method on an empty array does not throw an error; it returns `undefined`.

```js
[].pop() // undefined
```



Using `push` and `pop` together forms a "last-in, first-out" **stack structure** (stack).

```js
var arr = [];
arr.push(1, 2);
arr.push(3);
arr.pop();
arr // [1, 2]
```

In the code above, `3` is the last to enter the array but the first to leave.



### unshift(): Add to the Front, shift(): Remove from the Front

The `unshift()` method is used to **add an element at the first position of an array** and returns the array length after the new element is added. Note that this method changes the original array.

```js
var a = ['a', 'b', 'c'];

a.unshift('x'); // 4
a // ['x', 'a', 'b', 'c']
```

The `unshift()` method can accept multiple arguments, all of which are added to the front of the target array.

```js
var arr = [ 'c', 'd' ];
arr.unshift('a', 'b') // 4
arr // [ 'a', 'b', 'c', 'd' ]
```



The `shift()` method is used to **remove the first element of an array** and returns that element. Note that this method changes the original array.

```js
var a = ['a','b','c']
a.shift() // 'a' removes the first element and returns it
a // ['b','c']
```

In the code above, after using the `shift()` method, the original array is changed.



The `shift()` method can iterate over and empty an array.

```js
var list = [1, 2, 3, 4];
var item;

while (item = list.shift()) {
  console.log(item);
}

list // []
```

The code above uses the `list.shift()` method to take out one element at a time, thereby iterating over the array. Its premise is that array elements cannot be `0` or any element whose boolean value equals `false`, so **this kind of iteration is not very reliable**.

Using `push()` and `shift()` together forms a "first-in, first-out" **queue structure** (queue).

```js
var queue = []
queue.push('1')
queue.push('2')
queue.push('3')
queue.shift()
queue // ['2','3']
```



> push() adds an element at the last position, unshift() adds an element at the first position
>
> pop() removes the last element, shift() removes the first element



### join(): Join Each Member into a String

The `join()` method uses the specified argument as a separator to **join all array members into a single string and returns it**. If no argument is provided, a comma is used as the separator by default.

**Convert an array to a string**

```js
var a = [1,2,3,4]

a.join('') // '1234'
a.join(' ') // '1 2 3 4'
a.join('|') // '1|2|3|4‘
a.join() // '1,2,3,4'
```

If an array member is `undefined`, `null`, or an empty slot, it is converted to an empty string.

```js
[undefined, null].join('#')
// '#'

['a',, 'b'].join('-')
// 'a--b'
```

Via the `call` method, this method can also be used on strings or array-like objects.

```js
Array.prototype.join.call('hello', '-')
// "h-e-l-l-o"
// equivalent to 'hello'.split('').join('-')

var obj = { 0: 'a', 1: 'b', length: 2 }; // an array-like object
Array.prototype.join.call(obj, '-')
// 'a-b'
```



### concat(): Merge Arrays

The `concat` method is used to **merge multiple arrays**. It adds the members of the new arrays to the end of the original array's members and then **returns a new array, leaving the original array unchanged**.

```js
['hello'].concat(['world'])
// ['hello','world']

['hello'].concat(['world'],['!'])
// ["hello", "world", "!"]

[].concat({a: 1}, {b: 2})
// [{ a: 1 }, { b: 2 }]

[2].concat({a: 1})
// [2, {a: 1}]

[].concat(1,2)
// [1,2]
```

In addition to arrays as arguments, `concat` also accepts other types of values as arguments, adding them to the end of the target array.

```js
[1, 2, 3].concat(4, 5, 6)
// [1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6]
```

If the array members include objects, the `concat` method returns a shallow copy of the current array. A "**shallow copy**" means the new array copies references to the objects.

```js
var obj = { a: 1 };
var oldArray = [obj]; // shallow copy

var newArray = oldArray.concat();

obj.a = 2; // after changing the original object, the new array changes accordingly
newArray[0].a // 2
```

In the code above, the original array contains an object, and the new array generated by the `concat` method contains a reference to this object. So **after changing the original object, the new array changes accordingly**.



### reverse(): Reverse

The `reverse` method is used to **reverse the order of array elements** and returns the changed array. Note that this method will **change the original array**.

```js
var a = [1,2,3,4]
a.reverse() // [4,3,2,1]
a // [4,3,2,1]
```



### slice(): Extract a Portion of the Members

The `slice` method is used to **extract a portion of the target array**, returning a new array and **leaving the original array unchanged**.

```js
arr.slice(start, end);
```

Its first argument is the start position (starting from 0), and the second argument is the end position (but the element at that position itself is not included). If the second argument is omitted, it returns all the way to the last member of the original array.

```js
var a = ['a','b','c']
a.slice(0) // ['a','b','c'] from 0 to the last member
a.slice(1) // ['b','c'] from 1 to the last member
a.slice(1,2) // ['b'] from member 1 to member 2, excluding member 2
a.slice(2,6) // ['c'] from member 2 to member 6, with out-of-range positions ignored
a.slice() //['a','b','c'] no arguments, defaults to all; often used to copy an array into a new one
```

In the code above, the last example `slice` has no arguments, which is effectively equal to returning a copy of the original array.

If the argument to the `slice` method is **negative**, it indicates a **position counted from the end**.

```js
var a = ['a', 'b', 'c'];
a.slice(-2) // ["b", "c"]
a.slice(-2, -1) // ["b"]
```

In the code above, `-2` indicates the second position counted from the end, and `-1` indicates the first position counted from the end.

If the **first argument is greater than or equal to the array length**, or the **second argument is less than the first argument**, it **returns an empty array**.

```js
var a = ['a', 'b', 'c'];
a.slice(4) // []
a.slice(2, 1) // []
```

#### Application: Converting Array-like Objects to Arrays

**An important application** of the `slice` method is **converting array-like objects into real arrays**.

```js
Array.prototype.slice.call({ 0: 'a', 1: 'b', length: 2 })
// ['a', 'b']

Array.prototype.slice.call(document.querySelectorAll("div"));
Array.prototype.slice.call(arguments);
```

None of the arguments above are arrays, but by calling the `slice` method on them via the `call` method, they can be converted into real arrays.



### splice(): From Which Index, How Many to Delete, and Members to Add; Returns the Deleted Members

The `splice` method is used to **delete a portion of the original array's members**, **and it can add new array members at the deletion position**; **the return value is the deleted elements**. Note that this method **changes the original array**.

> It can also add new members at a specified position without deleting any members.

```js
arr.splice(start, count, addElement1, addElement2, ...);
// from which index, how many to delete, new members to insert... (optional)
```

The first argument of `splice` is the start position of deletion (starting from 0), and the second argument is the number of elements to delete. If there are more arguments after that, they are the new elements to be inserted into the array.

```js
var a = [1,2,3,4,5,6]
a.splice(2,2) // [3,4] returns the deleted members
a.[1,2,5,6]
```

The code above deletes 2 array members starting from position 2 of the original array.

```js
var a = ['a', 'b', 'c', 'd', 'e', 'f'];
a.splice(4, 2, 1, 2) // ["e", "f"]
a // ["a", "b", "c", "d", 1, 2]
```

The code above deletes 2 members starting from position 4 of the original array and inserts the new members [1, 2].

If the start position is negative, it means deletion begins from a position counted from the end.

```js
var a = ['a', 'b', 'c', 'd', 'e', 'f'];
a.splice(-4, 2) // ["c", "d"] a negative number counts from the end
```

The code above means deleting two members starting from the fourth position from the end, `c`.

If you simply want to insert elements, the second argument of the `splice` method can be set to `0`.

```js
var a = [1, 1, 1];

a.splice(1, 0, 'a') // [] // delete no members and add a new member at the specified position
a // [1, 'a', 1, 1]
```

#### Application: Splitting an Array

If only the first argument is provided, it is equivalent to **splitting the original array into two arrays** at the specified position.

```js
var a = [1, 2, 3, 4];
var a2 = a.splice(2) // [3, 4]
a // [1, 2]
a2 // [3, 4]
```



### sort(): Sort

The `sort` method sorts the array members, by default sorting in **lexicographic order**. After sorting, it **changes the original array**.

```js
['d', 'c', 'b', 'a'].sort()
// ['a', 'b', 'c', 'd']


[4, 3, 2, 1].sort()
// [1, 2, 3, 4]

['abc','ba','ea','ae'].sort()
// ["abc", "ae", "ba", "ea"]

[11, 101].sort()
// [101, 11]

[10111, 1101, 111].sort()
// [10111, 1101, 111]
```

The last three examples above require special attention. The `sort()` method does not sort by magnitude, but **by lexicographic order**. That is, numbers are first converted to strings and then compared in lexicographic order, so `101` comes before `11`.

> First convert to strings, then compare the order of the values at corresponding positions starting from position 0.

If you want the `sort` method to sort in a custom way, you can pass a function as an argument.

```js
[10111, 1101, 111].sort(function (a, b) { // if the return value is greater than 0, a is sorted after b, otherwise before
  return a - b; // ascending
})
// [111, 1101, 10111]

[10111, 1101, 111].sort(function (a, b) {
  return b - a; // descending
})
// [10111, 1101, 111]
```

In the code above, the argument function of `sort` itself accepts two arguments representing the two array members being compared. If the function's return value is greater than `0`, the first member is sorted after the second member; in all other cases, the first element is sorted before the second element.

#### Application: Custom Sorting

```js
[
  { name: "Zhang San", age: 30 },
  { name: "Li Si", age: 24 },
  { name: "Wang Wu", age: 28  }
].sort(function (o1, o2) {
  return o1.age - o2.age;
})
// [
//   { name: "Li Si", age: 24 },
//   { name: "Wang Wu", age: 28  },
//   { name: "Zhang San", age: 30 }
// ]


// custom sorting (sorting Chinese weekday strings)
[
    {day: '星期日'}, {day:'星期一'}, {day:'星期五'}
].sort(function(o1,o2){
    return computedDay(o1.day.charAt(2)) - computedDay(o2.day.charAt(2))
}) //[{ day: '星期一' }, { day: '星期五' }, { day: '星期日' }]

function computedDay(v){
   return v === '一' ? 1 : v === '二' ? 2 : v === '三' ? 3 : v === '四' ? 4 : v === '五' ? 5 : v === '六' ? 6 : 7
}
```

Note that **a custom sort function should return a number**; otherwise different browsers may have different implementations, and the results cannot be guaranteed to be consistent.

```js
// bad
[1, 4, 2, 6, 0, 6, 2, 6].sort((a, b) => a > b) // returns a boolean, not recommended

// good
[1, 4, 2, 6, 0, 6, 2, 6].sort((a, b) => a - b) // returns a number, recommended
```

In the code above, the former sorting algorithm returns a boolean, which is not recommended. The latter returns a number, which is the better approach.



### map(): Map Over Each Member and Return

The `map` method passes all members of the array into the argument function one by one, then combines each execution result into a new array and returns it. **It does not change the original array.**

```js
var numbers = [1, 2, 3];

numbers.map(function (n) {
  return n + 1;
});
// [2, 3, 4]

numbers
// [1, 2, 3]
```

In the code above, all members of the `numbers` array execute the argument function one by one, and the results are combined into a new array that is returned; the original array is unchanged.

The `map` method accepts a function as an argument. When this function is called, the `map` method passes it three arguments: **the current member**, **the current index**, and **the array itself**.

```js
[1, 2, 3].map(function(elem, index, arr) { // current member, current index, the array itself
  return elem * index;
});
// [0, 2, 6]
```

In the code above, the callback function of the `map` method has three arguments: `elem` is the value of the current member, `index` is the index of the current member, and `arr` is the original array (`[1, 2, 3]`).

The `map` method can also accept a second argument, used to bind the `this` variable inside the callback function (see the chapter "The this Variable").

```js
var arr = ['a', 'b', 'c'];

[1, 2].map(function (e) {
  return this[e]; // this points to arr
}, arr) // make the internal this point to arr
// ['b', 'c']
```

The code above uses the second argument of the `map` method to make the `this` object inside the callback function point to the `arr` array.

If the array has empty slots, the callback function of the `map` method is not executed at those positions; it skips the empty slots of the array.

```js
var f = function (n) { return 'a' };

[1, undefined, 2].map(f) // ["a", "a", "a"]
[1, null, 2].map(f) // ["a", "a", "a"]
[1, , 2].map(f) // ["a", , "a"]
```

In the code above, the `map` method does not skip `undefined` and `null`, but it does skip empty slots.



### forEach(): Loop Over Each Member

The `forEach` method is very similar to the `map` method; it also executes the argument function on all members of the array one by one. However, the `forEach` method **does not return a value**; it is **only used to manipulate data**. That is to say, if the purpose of iterating the array is to get a return value, use the `map` method; otherwise use the `forEach` method.

The usage of `forEach` is the same as the `map` method: the argument is a function that also accepts three arguments: **the current member, the current index, and the entire array**.



```js
function log(element, index, array) {  // current member, current index, the array itself
  console.log('[' + index + '] = ' + element);
}

[2, 5, 9].forEach(log);
// [0] = 2
// [1] = 5
// [2] = 9
```

In the code above, `forEach` iterates over the array not to get a return value, but to output content to the screen, so there is no need to use the `map` method.

The `forEach` method can also accept a second argument to bind the `this` variable of the argument function.

```js
var out = [];

[1, 2, 3].forEach(function(elem) {
  this.push(elem * elem); // this points to out
}, out); // make the internal this point to out

out // [1, 4, 9]
```

In the code above, the empty array `out` is the second argument of the `forEach` method, so the `this` keyword inside the callback function points to `out`.

Note that the `forEach` method **cannot break out of execution**; it always iterates over all members. If you want to break out of the iteration when a certain condition is met, you must use a `for` loop.

```js
var arr = [1, 2, 3];
for (var i = 0; i < arr.length; i++) {
  if (arr[i] === 2) break;
  console.log(arr[i]);
}
// 1
```

In the code above, execution breaks when it reaches the second member of the array. The `forEach` method cannot do this.



The `forEach` method also skips the empty slots of an array.

```js
var log = function (n) {
  console.log(n + 1);
};

[1, undefined, 2].forEach(log)
// 2
// NaN
// 3

[1, null, 2].forEach(log)
// 2
// 1  // null+1 => 1
// 3

[1, , 2].forEach(log)
// 2
// 3
```

In the code above, the `forEach` method does not skip `undefined` and `null`, but it does skip empty slots.



### filter(): Filter

The `filter` method is used to filter array members; members that satisfy the condition form a new array that is returned.

Its argument is a function that all array members execute one by one; members for which the function returns `true` form a new array that is returned.

This method **does not change the original array**.

```js
[1,2,3,4,5].filter(function(elem){
    return elem > 3
})
// [4,5]
```

The code above **returns** the array members greater than `3` **as a new array**.

```js
var arr = [0, 1, 'a', false];

arr.filter(Boolean)
// [1, "a"]
```

In the code above, the `filter` method returns all members of the array `arr` whose boolean value is `true`.

The argument function of the `filter` method can accept three arguments**: the current member, the current position, and the entire array.**

```js
[1, 2, 3, 4, 5].filter(function (elem, index, arr) { // current member, current position, the entire array
  return index % 2 === 0;
});
// [1, 3, 5]
```

The code above returns a new array of members at even positions.

The `filter` method can also accept a second argument to bind the `this` variable inside the argument function.

```js
var obj = { MAX: 3 };
var myFilter = function (item) {
  if (item > this.MAX) return true; // this points to obj
};

var arr = [2, 8, 3, 4, 1, 3, 2, 9];
arr.filter(myFilter, obj) // [8, 4, 9]  // make the internal this of myFilter point to obj
```

In the code above, the filter `myFilter` has a `this` variable inside it, which can be bound by the second argument `obj` of the `filter` method, returning members greater than `3`.

### some(): Any, every(): All

These two methods are similar to "**assertions**" (assert); they return a boolean indicating whether the array members meet a certain condition.

They accept a function as an argument that all array members execute one by one. This function accepts three arguments: **the current member, the current position, and the entire array**, and then **returns a boolean**.

The `some` method returns `true` for the entire `some` method as long as one member's return value is `true`; otherwise it returns `false`.

```js
var arr = [1,2,3,4,5]
arr.some(function(elem,index,arr){ // if any return value is true, this method returns true
    return elem >= 3
})
// true
```

In the code above, if the array `arr` has one member greater than or equal to 3, the `some` method returns `true`.



The `every` method returns `true` for the entire `every` method only when all members' return values are `true`; otherwise it returns `false`.

```js
var arr = [1, 2, 3, 4, 5];
arr.every(function (elem, index, arr) { // only when every return value is true does this method return true, otherwise false
  return elem >= 3;
});
// false
```

In the code above, not all members of the array `arr` are greater than or equal to `3`, so it returns `false`.

Note that for an empty array, the `some` method returns `false` and the `every` method returns `true`, and the callback function is not executed in either case.

```js
function isEven(x) { return x % 2 === 0 } // this function is not executed

[].some(isEven) // false
[].every(isEven) // true
```

The `some` and `every` methods can also accept a second argument to bind the `this` variable inside the argument function.

```js
var arr = [1,2,3]
var obj = {MAX:0}
function fn(elem) {
    return elem > this.MAX // this points to obj
}

arr.some(fn,obj) // true
arr.every(fn,obj) // true
```



### reduce(): Accumulator, reduceRight(): Reverse Accumulator

The `reduce` method and the `reduceRight` method process each member of the array one by one, ultimately accumulating into a single value. The difference between them is that `reduce` processes from left to right (from the first member to the last member), while `reduceRight` processes from right to left (from the last member to the first member); everything else is exactly the same.

```js
[1,2,3,4,5].reduce(function(a,b,c,d){
    // remember a defaults to the first member, then it is the return value of the previous computation.
    console.log(a,b)
    console.log(c)
    return a+b
})
// 1 2
// 3 3
// 6 4
// 10 5
// final result 15
```

In the code above, the `reduce` method computes the sum of all members of the array. On the first execution, `a` is the first member `1` and `b` is the second member `2`. On the second execution, `a` is the previous round's return value `3` and `b` is the third member `3`. On the third execution, `a` is the previous round's return value `6` and `b` is the fourth member `4`. On the fourth execution, `a` is the previous round's return value `10` and `b` is the fifth member `5`. At this point all members have been iterated, and the return value of the entire method is the last round's return value `15`.

```js
arr.reduce(callback(accumulator, currentValue[, index[, array]])[, initialValue])
// note: brackets denote optional arguments
```

The first argument of both the `reduce` and `reduceRight` methods is a `callback` function. This function accepts the following four arguments.

1. The accumulator variable, defaulting to the first member of the array
2. The current variable, defaulting to the second member of the array
3. The current position (defaulting to starting from 1); if `initialValue` is provided, the starting index is 0, otherwise 1. (optional)
4. The original array (optional)

`initialValue` is optional.

It serves as the value of the first argument on the first call to the `callback` function. If no initial value is provided, the first element of the array is used. Calling reduce on an empty array with no initial value throws an error.



If you want to specify an initial value for the accumulator variable, you can put it as the second argument of the `reduce` and `reduceRight` methods.

```js
[1, 2, 3, 4, 5].reduce(function (a, b) {
  return a + b;
}, 10);
// 25
```

The code above specifies the initial value of argument `a` as 10, so the array accumulates starting from 10, with a final result of 25. Note that at this point `b` starts iterating from the first member of the array.

The second argument above effectively sets a default value, which is especially useful when handling empty arrays.

```js
function add(prev, cur) {
  return prev + cur;
}

[].reduce(add) // error
// TypeError: Reduce of empty array with no initial value
[].reduce(add, 1)
// 1
```

In the code above, since an empty array cannot get an initial value, the `reduce` method throws an error. Adding the second argument here guarantees that a value is always returned.

Below is an example of the `reduceRight` method.

```js
function subtract(prev, cur) {
  return prev - cur;
}

[3, 2, 1].reduce(subtract) // 0
[3, 2, 1].reduceRight(subtract) // -4
```

In the code above, the `reduce` method is equivalent to `3` minus `2` minus `1`, while the `reduceRight` method is equivalent to `1` minus `2` minus `3`.

#### Application: Finding the Array Member with the Longest String

Since these two methods iterate over the array, they can actually also be used for some iteration-related operations. For example, finding the array member with the longest string length.

```
function findLongest(entries) {
  return entries.reduce(function (longest, entry) {
    return entry.length > longest.length ? entry : longest;
  }, '');
}

findLongest(['aaa', 'bb', 'c']) // "aaa"
```

In the code above, the argument function of `reduce` keeps the array member with the longer string length as the accumulated value. As a result, after iterating over all members, the accumulated value is the member with the longest string length.

#### Application: Grouping Objects by a Property



```js
var people = [
  { name: 'Alice', age: 21 },
  { name: 'Max', age: 20 },
  { name: 'Jane', age: 20 }
];

function groupBy(objectArray, property) {
  return objectArray.reduce(function (acc, obj) {
    var key = obj[property];
    if (!acc[key]) {// when {} does not have the corresponding group property, create it first
      acc[key] = [];
    }
    acc[key].push(obj);
    return acc;
  }, {}); // initial value is {}
}

var groupedPeople = groupBy(people, 'age');
// groupedPeople is:
// {
//   20: [
//     { name: 'Max', age: 20 },
//     { name: 'Jane', age: 20 }
//   ],
//   21: [{ name: 'Alice', age: 21 }]
// }
```

More examples: < https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/Array/Reduce >

### indexOf(): Find the First Occurrence Position of a Member, lastIndexOf(): Find the Last Occurrence Position of a Member

The `indexOf` method returns **the position of the first occurrence of a given element in the array**, or **returns `-1` if it does not occur**.



**indexOf syntax**

```js
arr.indexOf(searchElement[, fromIndex = 0])
```

```js
var a = [1,2,3,4,5]
a.indexOf(3) // 2   the position of the first occurrence of 3 in array a is 2
a.indexOf(6) // -1  6 does not occur in array a, returns -1
```



The `indexOf` method can also accept a second argument indicating the start position of the search.

```js
['a', 'b', 'c'].indexOf('a', 1) // -1 search for a starting from position 1, not found
```

The code above searches for the character `a` starting from position 1, and the result is `-1`, indicating it was not found.





**lastIndexOf() syntax**

```
arr.lastIndexOf(searchElement[, fromIndex = arr.length - 1])
```

The `lastIndexOf` method returns **the position of the last occurrence of a given element in the array**, or `-1` if it does not occur.

```js
var a = [2,3,4,2]
a.lastIndexOf(2) //3   the position of the last occurrence of 2 in array a is 3
a.lastIndexOf(5) //-1
```



Note that these two methods cannot be used to search for the position of `NaN`, i.e. they cannot determine whether array members contain `NaN`.

```js
[NaN].indexOf(NaN) // -1
[NaN].lastIndexOf(NaN) // -1
```

This is because these two methods internally use the strict equality operator (`===`) for comparison, and `NaN` is the only value that is not equal to itself.



### Chaining

Among the array methods above, quite a few still return arrays, so they can be chained.

```js
var users = [
  {name: 'tom', email: 'tom@example.com'},
  {name: 'peter', email: 'peter@example.com'}
];

users
.map(function (user) {
  return user.email;
}) // iterate over each member, using the return values to form a new array and return it
.filter(function (email) { // filter out members whose return value is false, returning a new filtered array
  return /^t/.test(email);
})
.forEach(function (email) { // iterate over the array
  console.log(email);
});
// "tom@example.com"
```

In the code above, an array of all Email addresses is first produced, then the Email addresses starting with `t` are filtered out, and finally they are printed.

> As long as the return value of a method satisfies the call of the next method, you can use chaining.

## 4. Wrapper Objects

## 1. Definition

Objects are the most important data type in the JavaScript language. The three primitive types of values—numbers, strings, and booleans—are also automatically converted into objects under certain conditions, i.e. the **wrapper objects** of the primitive types.

So-called "wrapper objects" **refer to the three native objects `Number`, `String`, and `Boolean`, which correspond to numbers, strings, and booleans respectively. These three native objects can turn (wrap) primitive values into objects**.



```js
var v1 = new Number(123);
var v2 = new String('abc');
var v3 = new Boolean(true);

typeof v1 // "object"
typeof v2 // "object"
typeof v3 // "object"

v1 === 123 // false
v2 === 'abc' // false
v3 === true // false
```

In the code above, three corresponding wrapper objects are created based on primitive values. As you can see, `v1`, `v2`, and `v3` are all objects, and they are not equal to the corresponding simple-type values.

**The design purpose of wrapper objects is, first, to make the "object" type able to cover all values in JavaScript, so the whole language has a unified data model; and second, to give primitive values a way to call their own methods.**



The three native objects `Number`, `String`, and `Boolean`, when called not as constructors (i.e. without `new`) but as ordinary functions, are often used to convert values of any type into numbers, strings, and booleans.

```js
// convert a string to a number
Number('123') // 123

// convert a number to a string
String(123) // "123"

// convert a number to a boolean
Boolean(123) // true
```

This kind of **data type conversion** is detailed in the section "Data Type Conversion".

To summarize, when these three objects are used as constructors (with `new`), they can convert primitive values into objects; when used as ordinary functions (without `new`), they can convert values of any type into primitive values.



## 2. Instance Methods

The three wrapper objects each provide many instance methods, detailed later. Here we introduce two methods they have in common, **inherited from** the `Object` object: `valueOf()` and `toString()`.



### 2.1 valueOf()

The `valueOf()` method returns the primitive value corresponding to the wrapper object instance.

```js
new Number(123).valueOf()  // 123
new String('abc').valueOf() // "abc"
new Boolean(true).valueOf() // true
```

### 2.2 toString()

The `toString()` method returns the corresponding string form.

```js
new Number(123).toString() // "123"
new String('abc').toString() // "abc"
new Boolean(true).toString() // "true"
```



## 3. Automatic Conversion Between Primitive Types and Instance Objects

In some situations, primitive values are automatically treated as wrapper objects, i.e. the properties and methods of the wrapper object are called. At this point, the JavaScript engine automatically converts the primitive value into a wrapper object instance and destroys the instance immediately after use.

For example, a string can call the `length` property, returning the length of the string.

```js
'abc'.length // 3
```

In the code above, `abc` is a string, not an object itself, and cannot call the `length` property. The JavaScript engine automatically converts it into a wrapper object and calls the `length` property on this object. After the call ends, this temporary object is destroyed. This is called automatic conversion between primitive types and instance objects.



```js
var str = 'abc';
str.length // 3

// equivalent to
var strObj = new String(str)
// String{
//		0:'a',1:'b',2:'c',length:3,[[PrimitiveValue]]: "abc"
// }
strObj.length // 3
```

In the code above, the wrapper object of the string `abc` provides multiple properties, and `length` is just one of them.

The wrapper object generated by automatic conversion is read-only and cannot be modified. Therefore, you cannot add new properties to a string.

```js
var s = 'Hello World';
s.x = 123;
s.x // undefined
```

The code above adds an `x` property to the string `s`, but it has no effect and always returns `undefined`.

On the other hand, after the call ends, the wrapper object instance is automatically destroyed. This means that the next time you access a property of the string, you are actually accessing a newly generated object rather than the object generated during the previous call, so you cannot get the property assigned to the previous object. If you want to add a property to strings, you can only define it on its prototype object `String.prototype` (see the chapter "Object-Oriented Programming").



## 4. Custom Methods

In addition to native instance methods, wrapper objects can also have custom methods and properties for primitive values to call directly.

For example, we can add a `double` method that doubles strings and numbers.

```js
String.prototype.double = function () { // String is a function, and String.prototype is essentially an instance object
  return this.valueOf() + this.valueOf();
};

'abc'.double()
// abcabc

Number.prototype.double = function () {
  return this.valueOf() + this.valueOf();
};

(123).double() // 246 // without parentheses, the dot operator would be interpreted as a decimal point
```

The code above defines a custom method on the prototypes of the `String` and `Number` objects respectively, so it can be called on all instance objects. Note that the `123` in the last call must be wrapped in parentheses, otherwise the following dot operator (`.`) would be interpreted as a decimal point.



## 5. The Boolean Object

## 1. Overview

The `Boolean` object is one of JavaScript's three wrapper objects. As a constructor, it is mainly used to create wrapper object instances of boolean values.

```js
var b = new Boolean(true)
typeof b // object
b.valueOf() // true
```

In the code above, the variable `b` is an instance of a `Boolean` object; its type is object and its value is the boolean `true`.

Note that for the wrapper object instance corresponding to `false`, the boolean operation result is also `true`.

```js
if (new Boolean(false)) { // this returns an object, and the boolean value of any object is true
  console.log('true');
} // true

if (new Boolean(false).valueOf()) { // its value is false
  console.log('true');
} // no output
```

The reason the first example above yields `true` is that the wrapper object instance corresponding to `false` is an object, which is automatically converted to the boolean `true` during a logical operation (because the boolean value of any object is `true`). The instance's `valueOf` method, however, returns the primitive value corresponding to the instance, which is `false` in this example.



## 2. The Type Conversion Role of the Boolean Function

In addition to being a constructor, the `Boolean` object can also be used standalone to convert any value into a boolean. In this case `Boolean` is simply a **utility method**.

```js
Boolean(undefined) // false
Boolean(null) // false
Boolean(0) // false
Boolean('') // false
Boolean(NaN) // false

Boolean(1) // true
Boolean('false') // true
Boolean([]) // true
Boolean({}) // true
Boolean(function () {}) // true
Boolean(/foo/) // true
```

The several cases above that yield `true` **are all worth memorizing carefully**.

> Using the arguments inside the parentheses of the methods above directly in an `if` logical operation is equivalent to calling the Boolean method with those arguments.

By the way, using the double negation operator (`!`) can also convert any value into the corresponding boolean.

```js
!!undefined // false
!!null // false
!!0 // false
!!'' // false
!!NaN // false

!!1 // true
!!'false' // true
!![] // true
!!{} // true
!!function(){} // true
!!/foo/ // true
```



Finally, for some special values, whether or not you add `new` before the `Boolean` object yields completely opposite results, so you must be careful.

```js
if (Boolean(false)) {
  console.log('true');
} // no output

if (new Boolean(false)) { // with new, it converts to an object, and an object is true
  console.log('true');
} // true

if (Boolean(null)) {
  console.log('true');
} // no output

if (new Boolean(null)) { // with new, it converts to an object, and an object is true
  console.log('true');
} // true
```



## 6. The Number Object

## 1. Overview

The `Number` object is the wrapper object corresponding to numeric values; it can be used as a constructor or as a utility function.

When used as a constructor, it creates objects whose value is a number.

```js
var n =new Number(1) // when used as a constructor, creates an object whose value is a number
typeof n // object
n.valueOf() // 1
```

In the code above, the `Number` object is used as a constructor, returning an object with the value `1`.

When used as a utility function, it can convert values of any type into numbers.

```js
Number(true) // 1

Number(false) // 0
Number(null) // 0
Number([]) // 0
Number('') // 0

Number({}) // NaN
Number(undefined) // NaN

Number('123')// 123
```

The code above converts the boolean `true` into the number `1`. For the use of `Number` as a utility function, see the chapter "Data Type Conversion".



## 2. Static Properties

The `Number` object has the following static properties (i.e. properties defined directly on the `Number` object, not on instances).

- `Number.POSITIVE_INFINITY`: positive infinity, pointing to `Infinity`.
- `Number.NEGATIVE_INFINITY`: negative infinity, pointing to `-Infinity`.
- `Number.NaN`: represents not-a-number, pointing to `NaN`.
- `Number.MAX_VALUE`: represents the largest positive number `1.7976931348623157e+308`; correspondingly, the smallest negative number is `-Number.MAX_VALUE`.
- `Number.MIN_VALUE`: represents the smallest positive number (i.e. the positive number closest to 0, which is `5e-324` in the 64-bit floating-point system); correspondingly, the negative number closest to 0 is `-Number.MIN_VALUE`.
- `Number.MAX_SAFE_INTEGER`: represents the largest integer that can be precisely represented, namely `9007199254740991`.
- `Number.MIN_SAFE_INTEGER`: represents the smallest integer that can be precisely represented, namely `-9007199254740991`.

```js
Number.POSITIVE_INFINITY // Infinity
Number.NEGATIVE_INFINITY // -Infinity
Number.NaN // NaN

Number.MAX_VALUE
// 1.7976931348623157e+308
Number.MAX_VALUE < Infinity
// true

Number.MIN_VALUE
// 5e-324
Number.MIN_VALUE > 0
// true

Number.MAX_SAFE_INTEGER // 9007199254740991
Number.MIN_SAFE_INTEGER // -9007199254740991
```

## 3. Instance Methods

The `Number` object has **4 instance methods**, all of which are related to **converting a number into a specified format**.

### 3.1 Number.prototype.toString(): Convert to a String in Various Bases

The `Number` object defines its own `toString` method, used to convert a number into string form.

```js
(10).toString() // "10"
```

The `toString` method can **accept one argument** indicating the **base** of the output. If this argument is omitted, by default the number is first converted to decimal and then output as a string; otherwise, the number is converted into a string in the base specified by the argument.

```js
(10).toString(2) // "1010"
(10).toString(8) // "12"
(10).toString(16) // "a"
```

In the code above, `10` must be placed in parentheses, indicating that the following dot represents accessing an object property. Without parentheses, this dot would be interpreted as a decimal point by the JavaScript engine, causing an error.

```js
10.toString(2) // without parentheses, the dot is interpreted as a decimal point, causing an error
// SyntaxError: Unexpected token ILLEGAL
```

As long as you can prevent the JavaScript engine from confusing the decimal point with the object's dot operator, various notations work. Besides adding parentheses around `10`, you can also add two dots after `10`; JavaScript interprets the first dot as a decimal point (i.e. `10.0`) and the second dot as accessing an object property, thus getting the correct result.

```js
10..toString(2)
// "1010"

// other methods include
10 .toString(2) // "1010"
10.0.toString(2) // "1010"
```

This actually means you can use the `toString` method directly on a decimal.

```js
10.5.toString() // "10.5"
10.5.toString(2) // "1010.1"
10.5.toString(8) // "12.4"
10.5.toString(16) // "a.8"
```

You can also call the `toString` method via the bracket operator.

```js
10['toString'](2) // "1010"
```

The `toString` method can only convert decimal numbers into strings in other bases. To convert numbers in other bases back to decimal, you need to use the `parseInt` method.

### 3.2 Number.prototype.toFixed(): Convert to a String with a Specified Number of Decimal Places

The `toFixed()` method first converts a number into a decimal with a specified number of digits, then returns the string corresponding to this decimal.

```js
(10).toFixed(2) // "10.00"
10.005.toFixed(2) // "10.01"
```

In the code above, `10` and `10.005` are first converted to 2 decimal places and then to strings. `10` must be placed in parentheses, otherwise the following dot would be treated as a decimal point.

The argument of the `toFixed()` method is the number of decimal places, with a valid range of 0 to 20; exceeding this range throws a RangeError.

Due to floating-point numbers, the rounding of the decimal `5` is uncertain, so you must be careful when using it.

```js
(10.055).toFixed(2) // 10.05
(10.005).toFixed(2) // 10.01
```

### 3.3 Number.prototype.toExponential(): Convert to a String in Scientific Notation

The `toExponential` method is used to convert a number into scientific notation.

```js
(10).toExponential()  // "1e+1"
(10).toExponential(1) // "1.0e+1"
(10).toExponential(2) // "1.00e+1"

(1234).toExponential()  // "1.234e+3"
(1234).toExponential(1) // "1.2e+3"
(1234).toExponential(2) // "1.23e+3"
```

The argument of the `toExponential` method is the number of significant digits after the decimal point, ranging from 0 to 20; exceeding this range throws a RangeError.

### 3.4 Number.prototype.toPrecision(): Convert to a Specified Number of Significant Digits

The `Number.prototype.toPrecision()` method is used to convert a number into a specified number of significant digits.

```js
(12.34).toPrecision(1) // "1e+1"
(12.34).toPrecision(2) // "12"
(12.34).toPrecision(3) // "12.3"
(12.34).toPrecision(4) // "12.34"
(12.34).toPrecision(5) // "12.340"
```

The argument of this method is the number of significant digits, ranging from 1 to 21; exceeding this range throws a RangeError.

This method is not very reliable for rounding, which is related to the fact that floating-point numbers are not stored precisely.

```js
(12.35).toPrecision(3) // "12.3"
(12.25).toPrecision(3) // "12.3"
(12.15).toPrecision(3) // "12.2"
(12.45).toPrecision(3) // "12.4"
```

### 4.5 Number.prototype.toLocaleString()

The `Number.prototype.toLocaleString()` method accepts a locale code as an argument and returns a string representing the local written form of the current number in that locale.

```js
(123).toLocaleString('zh-Hans-CN-u-nu-hanidec')
// "一二三"
```

This method can also accept a second configuration object argument to customize the returned string for a specified purpose. The object's `style` property specifies the output style; the default value is `decimal`, indicating decimal output. If the value is `percent`, it indicates percentage output.

```js
(123).toLocaleString('zh-Hans-CN', { style: 'persent' })
// "12,300%"
```

If the value of the `style` property is `currency`, it can be combined with the `currency` property to output a currency string in the specified format.

```js
(123).toLocaleString('zh-Hans-CN', { style: 'currency', currency: 'CNY' })
// "￥123.00"

(123).toLocaleString('de-DE', { style: 'currency', currency: 'EUR' })
// "123,00 €"

(123).toLocaleString('en-US', { style: 'currency', currency: 'USD' })
// "$123.00"
```

If the argument of `Number.prototype.toLocaleString()` is omitted, the browser decides how to handle it, usually using the operating system's locale settings. Note that if this method uses a locale code that the browser does not recognize, it throws an error.

```js
(123).toLocaleString('123') // error
```



#### Application: Adding Thousands Separators

```js
(123456.789).toLocaleString()
// outputs "123,456.789", commonly used.
```

```js
(1234566).toLocaleString('zh-Hans-CN-u-nu-hanidec');
// outputs "一,二三四,五六六"

(1234566).toLocaleString('zh-Hans-CN-u-nu-hanidec',{useGrouping: true});
// adding the second argument to .toLocaleString() still outputs "一,二三四,五六六"

// without thousands separators
(1234566).toLocaleString('zh-Hans-CN-u-nu-hanidec',{useGrouping: false});
// outputs "一二三四五六六"; this is quite useful, i.e. the simplest way to turn Arabic numerals into Chinese characters.
```



## 4. Custom Methods

Like other objects, you can define custom methods on the `Number.prototype` object, which are inherited by instances of `Number`.

```js
Number.prototype.add = function (x) {
  return this + x;
};

8['add'](2) // 10
```

The code above defines an `add` method for `Number` object instances. When a method is called on a number, the number is automatically converted into an instance of `Number`, so the `add` method can be called. Since the `add` method still returns a number, it can be chained.

```js
Number.prototype.subtract = function (x) {
  return this - x;
};

(8).add(2).subtract(4)
// 6
```

The code above defines a `subtract` method on `Number` object instances, which can be chained with the `add` method.

We can also define more complex methods.

```js
Number.prototype.iterate = function () {
  var result = [];
  for (var i = 0; i <= this; i++) {
    result.push(i);
  }
  return result;
};

(8).iterate()
// [0, 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6, 7, 8]
```

The code above defines an `iterate` method on the prototype of the `Number` object, which automatically iterates a number into an array.

**Note** that custom methods for numbers can only be defined on its prototype object `Number.prototype`; numbers themselves cannot have custom properties.

```js
var n = 1;
n.x = 1;
n.x // undefined
```

In the code above, `n` is a primitive number. Adding a property `x` directly on it does not throw an error, but it has no effect and always returns `undefined`. This is because once a property is accessed, `n` is automatically converted into an instance of `Number`, and after the access ends, that object is automatically destroyed. So the next time you access a property of `n`, you actually get a different object, and of course the property `x` cannot be read.



## 7. The String Object

## 1. Overview

The `String` object is one of the three wrapper objects natively provided by JavaScript, used to create string objects.

```js
var s1 = 'abc';
var s2 = new String('abc'); // using the new keyword turns it into a wrapper object

typeof s1 // "string"
typeof s2 // "object"

s2.valueOf() // "abc"
```

In the code above, the variable `s1` is a string and `s2` is an object. Since `s2` is a string object, the `s2.valueOf` method returns the primitive string it corresponds to.

**A string object is an array-like object** (very much like an array, but not an array).

```js
var strObj = new String('abc')
// String {0: "a", 1: "b", 2: "c", length: 3}

strObj[1] // "b"
```

In the code above, the string object corresponding to the string `abc` has numeric keys (`0`, `1`, `2`) and a `length` property, so values can be read from it like an array.

In addition to being used as a constructor, the `String` object can also be used as a utility method to convert values of any type into strings.

```js
String(true) // "true"
String(false) // "false"
String(5) // "5"
String(null) // 'null'
String(undefined) //'undefined'
String({}) // '[object Object]'
String([]) // ''
String(['1','2']) // '1,2'
```

The code above converts values of various types into strings.



## 2. Static Methods

### String.fromCharCode()

The static method provided by the `String` object (i.e. a method defined on the object itself, not on object instances) is mainly `String.fromCharCode()`. **The arguments of this method are one or more numbers representing Unicode code points, and the return value is the string composed of these code points.**

```js
String.fromCharCode() // ""
String.fromCharCode(97) // "a"
String.fromCharCode(104, 101, 108, 108, 111)
// "hello"
```

In the code above, when the argument of the `String.fromCharCode` method is empty, it returns an empty string; otherwise, it returns the Unicode string corresponding to the arguments.

Note that this method does not support characters with Unicode code points greater than `0xFFFF`, i.e. the argument passed in cannot be greater than `0xFFFF` (i.e. 65535 in decimal).

```js
String.fromCharCode(0x20BB7)
// "ஷ"
String.fromCharCode(0x20BB7) === String.fromCharCode(0x0BB7)
// true
```

In the code above, the argument `0x20BB7` of `String.fromCharCode` is greater than `0xFFFF`, causing an incorrect return result. The character corresponding to `0x20BB7` is the Chinese character `𠮷`, but the return result is a different character (code point `0x0BB7`). This is because when `String.fromCharCode` finds that the argument value is greater than `0xFFFF`, it ignores the extra bits (i.e. ignores the `2` in `0x20BB7`).

The fundamental reason for this phenomenon is that characters with code points greater than `0xFFFF` occupy four bytes, while JavaScript supports two-byte characters by default. In this case, `0x20BB7` must be split into two characters for representation.

```js
String.fromCharCode(0xD842, 0xDFB7)
// "𠮷"
```

In the code above, splitting `0x20BB7` into the two characters `0xD842` and `0xDFB7` (i.e. two two-byte characters combining into one four-byte character) yields the correct result. The four-byte representation of characters with code points greater than `0xFFFF` is determined by the UTF-16 encoding method.

## 3. Instance Properties

### String.prototype.length

The `length` property of a string instance returns the length of the string.

```js
'abc'.length // 3
```



## 4. Instance Methods

### 4.1 String.prototype.charAt(): Return the Character at a Specified Position

The `charAt` method **returns the character at a specified position**; the argument is the position numbered starting from `0`.

```js
var s = new String('abc');

s.charAt(1) // "b"
s.charAt(s.length - 1) // "c"
```

This method can be completely replaced by array subscripts.

```js
'abc'.charAt(1) // "b"
'abc'[1] // "b"
```

If the argument is negative or greater than or equal to the length of the string, `charAt` returns an empty string.

```js
'abc'.charAt(-1) // ""
'abc'.charAt(3) // ""
```



### 4.2 String.prototype.charCodeAt(): Return the Unicode Code Point (in Decimal) at a Specified Position in the String

The `charCodeAt` method **returns the Unicode code point (in decimal) at a specified position in the string**, which is the inverse operation of `String.fromCharCode()`.

```js
'abc'.charCodeAt(1) // 98
```

In the code above, the character at position `1` of `abc` is `b`, whose Unicode code point is `98`.

If no argument is given, `charCodeAt` returns the Unicode code point of the first character.

```js
'abc'.charCodeAt() // 97
```

If the argument is negative or greater than or equal to the length of the string, `charCodeAt` returns `NaN`.

```js
'abc'.charCodeAt(-1) // NaN
'abc'.charCodeAt(4) // NaN
```

**Note** that the Unicode code point returned by the `charCodeAt` method will not be greater than 65536 (0xFFFF), i.e. it only returns the code points of two-byte characters. If you encounter a character with a code point greater than 65536 (a four-byte character), you must use `charCodeAt` twice in succession, reading in not only `charCodeAt(i)` but also `charCodeAt(i+1)`, and combine the two values to get the accurate character.



### 4.3 String.prototype.concat(): Merge Strings, Return a New String, Leave the Original Unchanged

The `concat` method **is used to concatenate two strings, returning a new string and leaving the original string unchanged**.

```
var s1 = 'abc';
var s2 = 'def';

s1.concat(s2) // "abcdef"
s1 // "abc"
```

This method can accept multiple arguments.

```
'a'.concat('b', 'c') // "abc"
```

If an argument is not a string, the `concat` method first converts it into a string and then concatenates it.

```
var one = 1;
var two = 2;
var three = '3';

''.concat(one, two, three) // "123"
one + two + three // "33"
```

In the code above, the `concat` method first converts the arguments into strings and then concatenates them, so it returns a three-character string. In contrast, the plus operator does not convert types when both operands are numbers, so it returns a two-character string.

### 4.4 String.prototype.slice(): Extract a Substring, Leave the Original Unchanged

The `slice` method **is used to extract a substring from the original string and return it, leaving the original string unchanged**. Its first argument is the **start position** of the substring, and its second argument is the **end position (excluding that position)** of the substring.

```js
'JavaScript'.slice(0, 4) // "Java"
```

If the second argument is omitted, the substring extends to the end of the original string.

```js
'JavaScript'.slice(4) // "Script" omitting the second argument extracts to the end
```

If an argument is negative, it indicates a position counted from the end, i.e. the negative value plus the string length.

##### Negative Numbers Count from the End

```js
'JavaScript'.slice(-6) // "Script"
'JavaScript'.slice(0, -6) // "Java"
'JavaScript'.slice(-2, -1) // "p"
```

If the first argument is greater than the second argument, the `slice` method returns an empty string.

```js
'JavaScript'.slice(2, 1) // ""
```



### 4.5 String.prototype.substring(): Similar to slice

The `substring` method **is used to extract a substring from the original string and return it, leaving the original string unchanged**, and it is very similar to the `slice` method. Its first argument indicates the **start position** of the substring, and its second argument indicates the **end position (the return result excludes that position)**.

```js
'JavaScript'.substring(0, 4) // "Java"
```

If the second argument is omitted, the substring extends to the end of the original string.

```js
'JavaScript'.substring(4) // "Script" omitting the second argument extracts to the end
```

If the first argument is greater than the second argument, the `substring` method automatically swaps the positions of the two arguments.

```js
'JavaScript'.substring(10, 4) // "Script"   // substring auto-swaps positions, while slice returns an empty string
// equivalent to
'JavaScript'.substring(4, 10) // "Script"
```

In the code above, swapping the two arguments of the `substring` method yields the same result.

If an argument is negative, the `substring` method automatically converts the negative number to 0.

```js
'JavaScript'.substring(-3) // "JavaScript"  // substring auto-converts negatives to 0, while slice's negatives count from the end
'JavaScript'.substring(4, -3) // "Java"
```

In the code above, in the second example the argument `-3` automatically becomes `0`, equivalent to `'JavaScript'.substring(4, 0)`. Since the second argument is less than the first argument, the positions are automatically swapped, so it returns `Java`.

Because these rules are counterintuitive, **it is not recommended to use the `substring` method; you should prefer `slice`**.



#### Brief Summary: There Are Two Differences Between substring() and slice()

> * Negative arguments: substring auto-converts negatives to 0, slice's negatives count from the end
> * First argument greater than the second: substring auto-swaps positions, slice returns an empty string



### 4.6 String.prototype.substr(): Similar to slice and substring, Except the Second Argument Is the Length

The `substr` method is used to **extract a substring from the original string and return it, leaving the original string unchanged**; its function is the same as the `slice` and `substring` methods.

The first argument of the `substr` method is the start position of the substring (counted from 0), and **the second argument is the length of the substring**.

```js
'JavaScript'.substr(4, 6) // "Script"
```

If the second argument is omitted, the substring extends to the end of the original string.

```js
'JavaScript'.substr(4) // "Script" omitting the second argument extracts to the end
```

If the first argument is negative, it indicates a character position counted from the end. If the second argument is negative, it is automatically converted to 0, so an empty string is returned.

```js
'JavaScript'.substr(-6) // "Script" a negative first argument counts from the end
'JavaScript'.substr(4, -1) // ""  a negative second argument is converted to 0
```

In the code above, in the second example the argument `-1` is automatically converted to `0`, indicating a substring length of `0`, so it returns an empty string.



### 4.7 String.prototype.indexOf(): Find the First Occurrence of a Substring, String.prototype.lastIndexOf(): Find the Last Occurrence of a Substring

The `indexOf` method **is used to determine the position of the first occurrence of one string within another string**; **the return result is the position where the match begins**. If it returns `-1`, it means there is no match.

```js
'hello world'.indexOf('o') // 4
'JavaScript'.indexOf('script') // -1
```

The `indexOf` method can also accept a second argument indicating that matching starts forward from that position.

```js
'hello world'.indexOf('o', 6) // 7
```

The usage of the `lastIndexOf` method is the same as the `indexOf` method; the main difference is that `lastIndexOf` matches starting from the end, while `indexOf` matches starting from the beginning.

```js
'hello world'.lastIndexOf('o') // 7
```

In addition, the second argument of `lastIndexOf` indicates matching backward from that position.

```js
'hello world'.lastIndexOf('o', 6) // 4
```



### 4.8 String.prototype.trim(): "Trim" Whitespace from Both Ends, Leave the Original Unchanged

The `trim` method **is used to remove whitespace from both ends of a string, returning a new string and leaving the original string unchanged.**

```js
'  hello world  '.trim()
// "hello world"
```

This method removes not only spaces but also **tabs (`\t`, `\v`), newlines (`\n`), and carriage returns (`\r`)**.

```js
'\r\nabc \t'.trim() // 'abc'
```



### 4.9 String.prototype.toLowerCase(): Convert All to Lowercase, String.prototype.toUpperCase(): Convert All to Uppercase, Both Leave the Original Unchanged

The `toLowerCase` method is used to **convert a string entirely to lowercase**, while `toUpperCase` **converts it entirely to uppercase**. Both **return a new string and leave the original string unchanged**.

```js
'Hello World'.toLowerCase()
// "hello world"

'Hello World'.toUpperCase()
// "HELLO WORLD"
```



### 4.10 String.prototype.match(): Match a Substring, Return an Array (with index and input Properties)

The `match` method **is used to determine whether the original string matches a substring, returning an array whose member is the first matched string**. If no match is found, it returns `null`.

```js
'cat, bat, sat, fat'.match('at') // ["at"]
// ["at", index: 1, input: "cat, bat, sat, fat", groups: undefined]

'catbatsatbat'.match('bat') // ["bat"]
//["bat", index: 3, input: "catbatsatbat", groups: undefined]
// the index property is the index of the first occurrence of bat

'cat, bat, sat, fat'.match('xt') // null
```

The returned array also has an **`index` property** and an **`input` property**, indicating the **start position** of the matched string and the **original string**, respectively.

```js
var matches = 'cat, bat, sat, fat'.match('at');
matches.index // 1  the index position of the first occurrence of the substring
matches.input // "cat, bat, sat, fat"
```

The `match` method can also use a **regular expression** as its argument; see the chapter "Regular Expressions".



### 4.11 String.prototype.search(): Find the First Occurrence Position of a Substring, Return -1 If Not Found; String.prototype.replace(): Replace a Substring, the Second Argument Replaces the First, Leave the Original Unchanged

The usage of the `search` method is basically the same as `match`, but its **return value is the position of the first match. If no match is found, it returns `-1`.**

```js
'cat, bat, sat, fat'.search('at') // 1
```

The `search` method can also use a regular expression as its argument; see the section "Regular Expressions".

The `replace` method **is used to replace matched substrings**; in general it only replaces the first match (unless you use a regular expression with the `g` modifier).

```js
var str = 'aaa';
str.replace('a', 'b') // "baa" in general only the first match is replaced, unless a g regex is used
str // 'aaa' the original string is unchanged
str.replace('c','b') // 'aaa' if no match is found, the original string is returned
```

The `replace` method can also use a regular expression as its argument; see the section "Regular Expressions".





### 4.12 String.prototype.split(): Split a String by Given Rules, Return an Array

The `split` method **splits a string by given rules and returns an array composed of the split substrings.**

```js
'a|b|c'.split('|') // ["a", "b", "c"]
```

If the split rule is an empty string, the members of the returned array are each character of the original string.

```js
'a|b|c'.split('') // ["a", "|", "b", "|", "c"]
```

If **the argument is omitted, the only member of the returned array is the original string**.

```js
'a|b|c'.split() // ["a|b|c"]
```

If two parts that satisfy the split rule are adjacent (i.e. there are no other characters between two separators), the returned array will contain an empty string.

```js
'a||c'.split('|') // ['a', '', 'c']
```

If a part that satisfies the split rule is at the beginning or end of the string (i.e. there are no other characters before or after it), the first or last member of the returned array is an empty string.

```js
'|b|c'.split('|') // ["", "b", "c"]
'a|b|'.split('|') // ["a", "b", ""]
```

The `split` method can also accept a **second argument** that **limits the maximum number of members (array length) of the returned array**.

```js
'a|b|c'.split('|', 0) // []
'a|b|c'.split('|', 1) // ["a"]
'a|b|c'.split('|', 2) // ["a", "b"]
'a|b|c'.split('|', 3) // ["a", "b", "c"]
'a|b|c'.split('|', 4) // ["a", "b", "c"]
```

In the code above, the second argument of the `split` method determines the number of members in the returned array.

The `split` method can also use a regular expression as its argument; see the section "Regular Expressions".



### 4.13 String.prototype.localeCompare(): Compare Two Strings, Return an Integer

The `localeCompare` method **is used to compare two strings. It returns an integer**: **if less than 0, the first string is less than the second; if equal to 0, the two are equal; if greater than 0, the first string is greater than the second.**

```js
'apple'.localeCompare('banana') // -1
'apple'.localeCompare('apple') // 0
```

The biggest feature of this method is that it takes natural language ordering into account. For example, under normal circumstances, uppercase English letters are less than lowercase letters.

```js
'B' > 'a' // false
```

In the code above, the letter `B` is less than the letter `a`. This is because JavaScript uses Unicode code point comparison; the code point of `B` is 66, while the code point of `a` is 97.

However, the `localeCompare` method takes natural language ordering into account and sorts `B` before `a`.

```js
'B'.localeCompare('a') // 1
```

In the code above, the `localeCompare` method returns the integer 1, indicating that `B` is larger.

`localeCompare` can also have a second argument specifying the language to use (the default is English), and then it compares according to that language's rules.

```js
'ä'.localeCompare('z', 'de') // -1
'ä'.localeCompare('z', 'sv') // 1
```

In the code above, `de` represents German and `sv` represents Swedish. In German, `ä` is less than `z`, so it returns `-1`; in Swedish, `ä` is greater than `z`, so it returns `1`.



## 8. The Math Object

`Math` is a native object of JavaScript that provides various **mathematical** functions. This object **is not a constructor and cannot create instances**; all its properties and methods must be called on the `Math` object.

## 1. Static Properties

The static properties of the `Math` object provide the following mathematical constants.

- `Math.E`: the constant `e`.
- `Math.LN2`: the natural logarithm of 2.
- `Math.LN10`: the natural logarithm of 10.
- `Math.LOG2E`: the base-2 logarithm of `e`.
- `Math.LOG10E`: the base-10 logarithm of `e`.
- `Math.PI`: the constant `π`.
- `Math.SQRT1_2`: the square root of 0.5.
- `Math.SQRT2`: the square root of 2.

```js
Math.E // 2.718281828459045
Math.LN2 // 0.6931471805599453
Math.LN10 // 2.302585092994046
Math.LOG2E // 1.4426950408889634
Math.LOG10E // 0.4342944819032518
Math.PI // 3.141592653589793
Math.SQRT1_2 // 0.7071067811865476
Math.SQRT2 // 1.4142135623730951
```

These properties are all **read-only** and cannot be modified.

## 2. Static Methods

The `Math` object provides the following static methods.

- `Math.abs()`: absolute value
- `Math.ceil()`: round up
- `Math.floor()`: round down
- `Math.max()`: maximum value
- `Math.min()`: minimum value
- `Math.pow()`: exponentiation
- `Math.sqrt()`: square root
- `Math.log()`: natural logarithm
- `Math.exp()`: exponent of `e`
- `Math.round()`: rounding
- `Math.random()`: random number

### 2.1 Math.abs(): Absolute Value

The `Math.abs` method **returns the absolute value of the argument**.

```js
Math.abs(1) // 1
Math.abs(-1) // 1
```

### 2.2 Math.max(): Maximum Value, Math.min(): Minimum Value

The `Math.max` method **returns the largest of the arguments**, and `Math.min` **returns the smallest**. If the arguments are empty, `Math.min` returns `Infinity` and `Math.max` returns `-Infinity`.

```js
Math.max(2, -1, 5) // 5
Math.min(2, -1, 5) // -1
Math.min() // Infinity
Math.max() // -Infinity
```

### 2.3 Math.floor(): Round Down, Math.ceil(): Round Up

The `Math.floor` method **returns the largest integer less than or equal to the argument (the floor value)**.

```js
Math.floor(3.2) // 3
Math.floor(-3.2) // -4
```

The `Math.ceil` method **returns the smallest integer greater than or equal to the argument (the ceiling value)**.

```js
Math.ceil(3.2) // 4
Math.ceil(-3.2) // -3
```

These two methods can be combined to implement a function that **always returns the integer part of a number**.

```js
function ToInteger(x) {
  x = Number(x);
  return x < 0 ? Math.ceil(x) : Math.floor(x);
}

ToInteger(3.2) // 3
ToInteger(3.5) // 3
ToInteger(3.8) // 3
ToInteger(-3.2) // -3
ToInteger(-3.5) // -3
ToInteger(-3.8) // -3
```

In the code above, regardless of positive or negative numbers, the `ToInteger` function always returns the integer part of a number.

### 2.4 Math.round(): Rounding

The `Math.round` method is used for **rounding**.

```js
Math.round(0.1) // 0
Math.round(0.5) // 1
Math.round(0.6) // 1
```

**Note** how it handles negative numbers (mainly the handling of `.5`).

```js
Math.round(-1.1) // -1
Math.round(-1.5) // -1
Math.round(-1.6) // -2
```

### 2.5 Math.pow(): Exponentiation (Power Operation)

The `Math.pow` method returns **the result of raising the first argument (the base) to the power of the second argument (the exponent)**.

```js
// equivalent to 2 ** 2
Math.pow(2, 2) // 4   2 to the power of 2
// equivalent to 2 ** 3
Math.pow(2, 3) // 8   2 to the power of 3
```

Below is a **method for calculating the area of a circle**.

```js
var radius = 20;
var area = Math.PI * Math.pow(radius, 2); // 1256.6370614359173
```

### 2.6 Math.sqrt(): Square Root

The `Math.sqrt` method **returns the square root of the argument**. If the argument is negative, it returns `NaN`.

```js
Math.sqrt(4) // 2
Math.sqrt(-4) // NaN
```

### 2.7 Math.log(): Natural Logarithm

The `Math.log` method returns the natural logarithm (base `e`).

```js
Math.log(Math.E) // 1
Math.log(10) // 2.302585092994046
```

To calculate the base-10 logarithm, you can first use `Math.log` to compute the natural logarithm and then divide by `Math.LN10`; to compute the base-2 logarithm, divide by `Math.LN2`.

```js
Math.log(100)/Math.LN10 // 2
Math.log(8)/Math.LN2 // 3
```

### 2.8 Math.exp(): Exponent of `e`

The `Math.exp` method returns the constant `e` raised to the power of the argument.

```js
Math.exp(1) // 2.718281828459045
Math.exp(3) // 20.085536923187668
```

### 2.9 Math.random(): Random Number from 0 to 1 (May Equal 0, but Always Less Than 1)

`Math.random()` returns **a pseudo-random number between 0 and 1**; it may equal 0 but is always less than 1.

```js
Math.random() // 0.7151307314634323
```

A **function for generating a random number in any range** is as follows.

```js
function getRandomArbitrary(min, max) {
  return Math.random() * (max - min) + min;
}

getRandomArbitrary(1.5, 6.5)
// 2.4942810038223864
```

A **function for generating a random integer in any range** is as follows.

```js
function getRandomInt(min, max) {
  return Math.floor(Math.random() * (max - min + 1)) + min;
}

getRandomInt(1, 6) // 5
```

An example of returning a **random string of characters** is as follows.

```js
function random_str(length) {
  var ALPHABET = 'ABCDEFGHIJKLMNOPQRSTUVWXYZ';
  ALPHABET += 'abcdefghijklmnopqrstuvwxyz';
  ALPHABET += '0123456789-_';
  var str = '';
  for (var i = 0; i < length; ++i) {
    var rand = Math.floor(Math.random() * ALPHABET.length);
    str += ALPHABET.substring(rand, rand + 1);
  }
  return str;
}

random_str(6) // "NdQKOr" the argument is the specified string length
```

In the code above, the `random_str` function accepts an integer as an argument and returns a string of the specified length composed of random characters from the variable `ALPHABET`.

### 2.10 Trigonometric Function Methods

The `Math` object also provides a series of trigonometric function methods.

- `Math.sin()`: returns the sine of the argument (the argument is in radians)
- `Math.cos()`: returns the cosine of the argument (the argument is in radians)
- `Math.tan()`: returns the tangent of the argument (the argument is in radians)
- `Math.asin()`: returns the arcsine of the argument (the return value is in radians)
- `Math.acos()`: returns the arccosine of the argument (the return value is in radians)
- `Math.atan()`: returns the arctangent of the argument (the return value is in radians)

```js
Math.sin(0) // 0
Math.cos(0) // 1
Math.tan(0) // 0

Math.sin(Math.PI / 2) // 1

Math.asin(1) // 1.5707963267948966
Math.acos(1) // 0
Math.atan(1) // 0.7853981633974483
```

Knowledge related to the application of trigonometric functions: < https://www.w3cplus.com/javascript/trigonometry-you-must-know.html >



## 9. The Date Object

The `Date` object is JavaScript's native time library. It uses 00:00:00 on January 1, 1970, in Coordinated Universal Time (UTC) as the time zero point, and the time range it can represent is 100 million days before and after (in milliseconds).

## 1. Use as an Ordinary Function

The `Date` object can be called directly as an ordinary function, returning a **string** representing the current time.

```js
Date()
// "Tue Dec 01 2015 09:34:43 GMT+0800 (CST)" string type
```

**Note** that even with arguments, when `Date` is used as an ordinary function, it still returns the current time.

```js
Date(2000, 1, 1) // when used as an ordinary function, even with arguments it returns the current time
// "Tue Dec 01 2015 09:34:43 GMT+0800 (CST)"
```

The code above shows that **regardless of whether there are arguments, calling `Date` directly always returns the current time**.



## 2. Use as a Constructor

`Date` can also be used as a constructor. Using the `new` command on it returns an instance of a `Date` object. If no argument is given, the instance represents the current time.

```js
var today = new Date();
```

A `Date` instance has a unique characteristic. When other objects are evaluated, they call the `.valueOf()` method by default, but when a `Date` instance is evaluated, the `toString()` method is called by default. This causes evaluating a `Date` instance to return a string representing the time corresponding to that instance.

```js
var today = new Date();

today
// "Tue Dec 01 2015 09:34:43 GMT+0800 (CST)"

// equivalent to
today.toString()
// "Tue Dec 01 2015 09:34:43 GMT+0800 (CST)"
```

In the code above, `today` is an instance of `Date`, and **evaluating it directly is equivalent to calling the `toString` method**.



When used as a constructor, the `Date` object **can accept arguments in various formats** and returns a time instance corresponding to that argument.

```js
// the argument is the number of milliseconds counted from the time zero point
new Date(1378218728000)
// Tue Sep 03 2013 22:32:08 GMT+0800 (CST)

// the argument is a date string
new Date('January 6, 2013');
// Sun Jan 06 2013 00:00:00 GMT+0800 (CST)

// the arguments are multiple integers,
// representing year, month, day, hours, minutes, seconds, milliseconds
new Date(2013, 0, 1, 0, 0, 0, 0)
// Tue Jan 01 2013 00:00:00 GMT+0800 (CST)
```

There are a few notes about the arguments of the `Date` constructor.

**First**, the argument can be a negative integer, representing a time before New Year's Day 1970.

```js
new Date(-1378218728000)
// Fri Apr 30 1926 17:27:52 GMT+0800 (CST)
```

**Second**, any string that can be parsed by the `Date.parse()` method can be used as an argument.

```js
new Date('2013-2-15')
new Date('2013/2/15')
new Date('02/15/2013')
new Date('2013-FEB-15')
new Date('FEB, 15, 2013')
new Date('FEB 15, 2013')
new Date('February, 15, 2013')
new Date('February 15, 2013')
new Date('15 Feb 2013')
new Date('15, February, 2013')
// Fri Feb 15 2013 00:00:00 GMT+0800 (CST)
```

The various date string notations above all return the same time.

**Third**, when the arguments are multiple integers such as year, month, and day, the year and month cannot be omitted, while the other arguments can be omitted. In other words, at least two arguments are needed here, because if only the single argument "year" is used, `Date` interprets it as a number of milliseconds.

```js
new Date(2013) // a single numeric argument is interpreted as a number of milliseconds
// Thu Jan 01 1970 08:00:02 GMT+0800 (CST)
```

In the code above, 2013 is interpreted as a number of milliseconds, not as a year.

```js
new Date(2013, 0)
// Tue Jan 01 2013 00:00:00 GMT+0800 (CST)
new Date(2013, 0, 1)
// Tue Jan 01 2013 00:00:00 GMT+0800 (CST)
new Date(2013, 0, 1, 0)
// Tue Jan 01 2013 00:00:00 GMT+0800 (CST)
new Date(2013, 0, 1, 0, 0, 0, 0)
// Tue Jan 01 2013 00:00:00 GMT+0800 (CST)
```

In the code above, regardless of how many arguments there are, the return value is midnight on January 1, 2013.

Finally, the value ranges of each argument are as follows.

- Year: use a four-digit year, such as `2000`. If written as two or one digit, `1900` is added, i.e. `10` represents the year 1910. A negative number represents BC.
- Month: **`0` represents January, and so on, `11` represents December**.
- Day: `1` to `31`.
- Hours: `0` to `23`.
- Minutes: `0` to `59`.
- Seconds: `0` to `59`.
- Milliseconds: `0` to `999`.

Note that months are counted from `0`, but days are counted from `1`. In addition, except for the day, whose default value is `1`, the default values of hours, minutes, seconds, and milliseconds are all `0`.

If these arguments exceed the normal range, they are automatically adjusted. For example, if the month is set to `15`, it is adjusted to April of the next year.

```js
new Date(2013, 15)
// Tue Apr 01 2014 00:00:00 GMT+0800 (CST)
new Date(2013, 0, 0)
// Mon Dec 31 2012 00:00:00 GMT+0800 (CST)
```

In the second example above, setting the day to `0` represents the last day of the previous month.

Arguments can also use negative numbers, representing time to be subtracted.

```js
new Date(2013, -1)
// Sat Dec 01 2012 00:00:00 GMT+0800 (CST)
new Date(2013, 0, -1)
// Sun Dec 30 2012 00:00:00 GMT+0800 (CST)
```

In the code above, negative numbers are used for month and day respectively, representing subtracting the corresponding time from the base date.



## 3. Date Arithmetic

During automatic type conversion, if a `Date` instance is converted to a number, it equals the corresponding number of milliseconds; if converted to a string, it equals the corresponding date string. So when two date instance objects are subtracted, the return value is the number of milliseconds between them; when added, the return value is a new string formed by concatenating the two strings.

```js
var d1 = new Date(2000, 2, 1);
var d2 = new Date(2000, 3, 1);

d2 - d1 // subtraction returns the number of milliseconds
// 2678400000
d2 + d1 // addition returns a date string
// "Sat Apr 01 2000 00:00:00 GMT+0800 (CST)Wed Mar 01 2000 00:00:00 GMT+0800 (CST)"
```



## 4. Static Methods

### 4.1 Date.now(): Current Timestamp

The `Date.now` method **returns the number of milliseconds (i.e. the timestamp) between the current time and the time zero point (January 1, 1970, 00:00:00 UTC)**, equivalent to the Unix timestamp multiplied by 1000.

```js
Date.now() // 1364026285194
```

### 4.2 Date.parse(): Parse a Date String and Return the Timestamp for That Point in Time

The `Date.parse` method is used to **parse a date string and return the number of milliseconds between that time and the time zero point (January 1, 1970, 00:00:00)**.

The date string should conform to the RFC 2822 and ISO 8061 standards, i.e. the `YYYY-MM-DDTHH:mm:ss.sssZ` format, where the final `Z` indicates the time zone. However, other formats can also be parsed; see the examples below.

```js
Date.parse('Aug 9, 1995')
Date.parse('January 26, 2011 13:51:50')
Date.parse('Mon, 25 Dec 1995 13:30:00 GMT')
Date.parse('Mon, 25 Dec 1995 13:30:00 +0430')
Date.parse('2011-10-10')
Date.parse('2011-10-10T14:48:00')
```

All the date strings above can be parsed.

If parsing fails, it returns `NaN`.

```js
Date.parse('xxx') // NaN
```

### 4.3 Date.UTC(): Take Year, Month, Day, etc. as Arguments and Return the Timestamp for That Point in Time

The `Date.UTC` method **accepts variables such as year, month, and day as arguments and returns the number of milliseconds between that time and the time zero point (January 1, 1970, 00:00:00 UTC).**

```js
// format
Date.UTC(year, month[, date[, hrs[, min[, sec[, ms]]]]])

// usage
Date.UTC(2011, 0, 1, 2, 3, 4, 567)
// 1293847384567
```

The argument usage of this method is exactly the same as the `Date` constructor, for example months are counted from `0` and days from `1`. The difference is that the arguments of the `Date.UTC` method are interpreted as UTC time (Coordinated Universal Time), while the arguments of the `Date` constructor are interpreted as time in the current time zone.



## 5. Instance Methods

A `Date` instance object has dozens of its own methods. Apart from `valueOf` and `toString`, they can be divided into the following three categories.

- The `to` category: returns a string from the `Date` object representing the specified time.
- The `get` category: gets the date and time of the `Date` object.
- The `set` category: sets the date and time of the `Date` object.

### 5.1 Date.prototype.valueOf(): Return the Timestamp, Equivalent to getTime() (Called by Default in Subtraction)

The `valueOf` method **returns the number of milliseconds between the instance object and the time zero point (January 1, 1970, 00:00:00 UTC)**; this method is equivalent to the `getTime` method.

```js
var d = new Date();

d.valueOf() // 1362790014817
d.getTime() // 1362790014817
```

In situations where a number is expected, the `Date` instance automatically calls this method, so **you can use the following method to calculate a time interval**.

```js
var start = new Date();
// ...
var end = new Date();
var elapsed = end - start; // automatically calls the valueOf() method, performing subtraction on the timestamps
```

### 5.2 The to Category of Methods (Returning Strings)

#### (1) Date.prototype.toString(): Return a Complete Date String (Called by Default When Reading an Instance Directly)

The `toString` method **returns a complete date string**.

```
var d = new Date(2013, 0, 1);

d.toString()
// "Tue Jan 01 2013 00:00:00 GMT+0800 (CST)"
d
// "Tue Jan 01 2013 00:00:00 GMT+0800 (CST)"
```

Because `toString` is the **default method that is called**, **reading a `Date` instance directly is equivalent to calling this method**.



#### (2) Date.prototype.toUTCString(): Return the Corresponding UTC Time (Coordinated Universal Time), 8 Hours Behind Beijing Time

The `toUTCString` method returns the corresponding UTC time, i.e. 8 hours behind Beijing time.

```js
var d = new Date(2013, 0, 1);

d.toUTCString()
// "Mon, 31 Dec 2012 16:00:00 GMT"
```



#### (3) Date.prototype.toISOString(): Return the ISO8601 Notation of the Corresponding Time (UTC Time)

The `toISOString` method returns the ISO8601 notation of the corresponding time.

```js
var d = new Date(2013, 0, 1);

d.toISOString()
// "2012-12-31T16:00:00.000Z"
```

**Note that the `toISOString` method always returns the time in the UTC time zone.**



#### (4) Date.prototype.toJSON(): Return a JSON-Format String, Exactly the Same as the Result of toISOString

The `toJSON` method returns an ISO date string in JSON format, exactly the same as the result returned by the `toISOString` method.

```js
var d = new Date(2013, 0, 1);

d.toJSON()
// "2012-12-31T16:00:00.000Z"
```



#### (5) Date.prototype.toDateString(): Return a Date String (Without Hours, Minutes, Seconds)

The `toDateString` method **returns a date string (without hours, minutes, and seconds)**.

```js
var d = new Date(2013, 0, 1);
d.toDateString() // "Tue Jan 01 2013"
```



#### (6) Date.prototype.toTimeString(): Return a Time String (Without Year, Month, Day)

The `toTimeString` method **returns a time string (without year, month, and day)**.

```js
var d = new Date(2013, 0, 1);
d.toTimeString() // "00:00:00 GMT+0800 (CST)"
```



#### (7) Local Time

The following three methods can convert a Date instance into a string representing local time.

- `Date.prototype.toLocaleString()`: the complete local time.
- `Date.prototype.toLocaleDateString()`: the local date (without hours, minutes, and seconds).
- `Date.prototype.toLocaleTimeString()`: the local time (without year, month, and day).

Below are usage examples.

```js
var d = new Date(2013, 0, 1);

d.toLocaleString()
// in a Chinese browser: "2013年1月1日 上午12:00:00"
// in an English browser: "1/1/2013 12:00:00 AM"

d.toLocaleDateString()
// in a Chinese browser: "2013年1月1日"
// in an English browser: "1/1/2013"

d.toLocaleTimeString()
// in a Chinese browser: "上午12:00:00"
// in an English browser: "12:00:00 AM"
```

All three methods have two optional arguments.

```js
dateObj.toLocaleString([locales[, options]])
dateObj.toLocaleDateString([locales[, options]])
dateObj.toLocaleTimeString([locales[, options]])
```

Of these two arguments, `locales` is a **string specifying the language to use**, and `options` is a **configuration object**. Below is an example of `locales`.

```js
var d = new Date(2013, 0, 1);

d.toLocaleString('en-US') // "1/1/2013, 12:00:00 AM"
d.toLocaleString('zh-CN') // "2013/1/1 上午12:00:00"

d.toLocaleDateString('en-US') // "1/1/2013"
d.toLocaleDateString('zh-CN') // "2013/1/1"

d.toLocaleTimeString('en-US') // "12:00:00 AM"
d.toLocaleTimeString('zh-CN') // "上午12:00:00"
```

Below is an example of `options`.

```js
var d = new Date(2013, 0, 1);

// time format
// the settings below: weekday and month as full text, year and day as numbers
d.toLocaleDateString('en-US', {
  weekday: 'long',
  year: 'numeric',
  month: 'long',
  day: 'numeric'
})
// "Tuesday, January 1, 2013"

// specify the time zone
d.toLocaleTimeString('en-US', {
  timeZone: 'UTC',
  timeZoneName: 'short'
})
// "4:00:00 PM UTC"

d.toLocaleTimeString('en-US', {
  timeZone: 'Asia/Shanghai',
  timeZoneName: 'long'
})
// "12:00:00 AM China Standard Time"

// whether the hour cycle is 12 or 24
d.toLocaleTimeString('en-US', {
  hour12: false
})
// "00:00:00"

d.toLocaleTimeString('en-US', {
  hour12: true
})
// "12:00:00 AM"
```



### 5.3 The get Category (Getting Year, Month, Day, Hour, Minute, Second, etc.)

The `Date` object provides a series of `get*` methods for getting the value of a certain aspect of the instance object.

- `getTime()`: returns the number of milliseconds between the instance and January 1, 1970, 00:00:00, equivalent to the `valueOf` method. **(timestamp)**
- `getDate()`: returns the day of the month corresponding to the instance object (starting from 1). **(day)**
- `getDay()`: returns the day of the week, with Sunday being 0, Monday being 1, and so on. **(weekday)**
- `getFullYear()`: returns the four-digit year. **(year)**
- `getMonth()`: returns the month (0 represents January, 11 represents December). **(month)**
- `getHours()`: returns the hour (0-23). **(hour)**
- `getMilliseconds()`: returns the milliseconds (0-999). **(milliseconds)**
- `getMinutes()`: returns the minutes (0-59). **(minutes)**
- `getSeconds()`: returns the seconds (0-59). **(seconds)**
- `getTimezoneOffset()`: returns the time zone difference between the current time and UTC, expressed in minutes; the return result accounts for daylight saving time. **(difference from UTC)**

All these `get*` methods return **integers**, and the ranges of the return values vary by method.

- Minutes and seconds: 0 to 59
- Hours: 0 to 23
- Weekday: 0 (Sunday) to 6 (Saturday)
- Day: 1 to 31
- Month: 0 (January) to 11 (December)

```js
var d = new Date('January 6, 2013');

d.getDate() // 6
d.getMonth() // 0
d.getFullYear() // 2013
d.getTimezoneOffset() // -480   UTC time minus the current time, in minutes
```

In the code above, the last line returns `-480`, i.e. UTC time minus the current time, in minutes. `-480` means UTC is 480 minutes less than the current time, i.e. the current time zone is 8 hours ahead of UTC.



###### Example: Calculating How Many Days Are Left in the Current Year

```js
function leftDays() {
  var today = new Date();
  var endYear = new Date(today.getFullYear(), 11, 31, 23, 59, 59, 999);
  var msPerDay = 24 * 60 * 60 * 1000; // milliseconds in a day
  return Math.round((endYear.getTime() - today.getTime()) / msPerDay);
}
```

The `get*` methods above all return the time in the current time zone; the `Date` object also provides UTC versions corresponding to these methods, used to return UTC time.

**Methods for getting the UTC time zone:**

- `getUTCDate()`
- `getUTCFullYear()`
- `getUTCMonth()`
- `getUTCDay()`
- `getUTCHours()`
- `getUTCMinutes()`
- `getUTCSeconds()`
- `getUTCMilliseconds()`

```js
var d = new Date('January 6, 2013');

d.getDate() // 6
d.getUTCDate() // 5
```

In the code above, the instance object `d` represents January 6, 0:00:00, in the current time zone (UTC+8). For the current time zone this time is January 6, so the `getDate` method returns 6; for the UTC time zone it is January 5, so the `getUTCDate` method returns 5.



### 5.4 The set Category of Methods

The `Date` object provides a series of `set*` methods for setting various aspects of the instance object.

- `setDate(date)`: sets the **day** of the month corresponding to the instance object (1-31), returning the changed millisecond timestamp.
- `setFullYear(year [, month, date])`: sets the four-digit **year**.
- `setHours(hour [, min, sec, ms])`: sets the **hour** (0-23).
- `setMilliseconds()`: sets the **milliseconds** (0-999).
- `setMinutes(min [, sec, ms])`: sets the **minutes** (0-59).
- `setMonth(month [, date])`: sets the **month** (0-11).
- `setSeconds(sec [, ms])`: sets the **seconds** (0-59).
- `setTime(milliseconds)`: sets the **millisecond timestamp**.

These methods basically correspond one-to-one with the `get*` methods, but there is no `setDay` method, because the day of the week is calculated, not set. In addition, note that whenever setting the month is involved, it is counted from 0, i.e. `0` is January and `11` is December.

```js
var d = new Date ('January 6, 2013');

d // Sun Jan 06 2013 00:00:00 GMT+0800 (CST)
d.setDate(9) // 1357660800000
d // Wed Jan 09 2013 00:00:00 GMT+0800 (CST)
```

The arguments of `set*` methods are all automatically adjusted. Taking `setDate` as an example, if the argument exceeds the maximum number of days in the current month, it rolls over to the next month; if the argument is negative, it represents the number of days subtracted starting from the last day of the previous month.

```js
var d1 = new Date('January 6, 2013');

d1.setDate(32) // 1359648000000
d1 // Fri Feb 01 2013 00:00:00 GMT+0800 (CST)

var d2 = new Date ('January 6, 2013');

d.setDate(-1) // 1356796800000
d // Sun Dec 30 2012 00:00:00 GMT+0800 (CST)
```

**The `set` category and `get` category methods can be used together to obtain relative times.**

```js
var d = new Date();

// push the date forward by 1000 days
d.setDate(d.getDate() + 1000);
// set the time to 6 hours later
d.setHours(d.getHours() + 6);
// set the year to last year
d.setFullYear(d.getFullYear() - 1);
```

Except for `setTime()`, all `set*` series methods have corresponding UTC versions, i.e. they **set the time in the UTC time zone**.

- `setUTCDate()`
- `setUTCFullYear()`
- `setUTCHours()`
- `setUTCMilliseconds()`
- `setUTCMinutes()`
- `setUTCMonth()`
- `setUTCSeconds()`

```js
var d = new Date('January 6, 2013');
d.getUTCHours() // 16
d.setUTCHours(22) // 1357423200000
d // Sun Jan 06 2013 06:00:00 GMT+0800 (CST)
```

In the code above, January 6, 0:00, in the local time zone (UTC+8) is 16:00 of the previous day in the UTC time zone. After setting it to 22:00 in the UTC time zone, it becomes 6:00 AM in the local time zone.



## 10. The RegExp Object

The `RegExp` object provides regular expression functionality.

## 1. Overview

**A regular expression is a method for expressing text patterns (i.e. string structures); it is somewhat like a template for strings and is often used to match text according to a "given pattern"**. For example, a regular expression gives a pattern for an Email address, which is then used to determine whether a string is an Email address. JavaScript's regular expression system is built based on Perl 5.

**There are two ways to create a regular expression:**

**One is using a literal, with slashes indicating the start and end.**

```js
var regex = /xyz/; // more efficient and intuitive, recommended.
```

**The other is using the `RegExp` constructor.**

```js
var regex = new RegExp('xyz');
```

The two notations above are equivalent; both create a regular expression object with the content `xyz`. Their main difference is that the first method creates the regular expression when the engine compiles the code, while the second method creates the regular expression at runtime, so the former is more efficient. Moreover, the former is more convenient and intuitive, so in practice the literal form is generally used to define regular expressions.

The `RegExp` constructor can also accept a second argument representing the modifiers (explained in detail below).

```js
var regex = new RegExp('xyz', 'i'); // i is a modifier
// equivalent to
var regex = /xyz/i;
```

In the code above, the regular expression `/xyz/` has a modifier `i`.



## 2. Instance Properties

The instance properties of a regular expression object fall into two categories.

One category is **modifier-related**, used to learn what modifiers are set.

- `RegExp.prototype.ignoreCase`: returns a boolean indicating whether the `i` modifier is set.
- `RegExp.prototype.global`: returns a boolean indicating whether the `g` modifier is set.
- `RegExp.prototype.multiline`: returns a boolean indicating whether the `m` modifier is set.
- `RegExp.prototype.flags`: returns a string containing all the modifiers that have been set, sorted alphabetically.

The above four properties are all **read-only**.

```js
var r = /abc/igm;

r.ignoreCase // true whether the i modifier is set
r.global // true whether the g modifier is set
r.multiline // true whether the m modifier is set
r.flags // 'gim' a string containing all set modifiers, sorted alphabetically
```

The other category is **properties unrelated to modifiers**, mainly the following two.

- `RegExp.prototype.lastIndex`: returns an integer indicating the position where the next search will begin. This property is readable and writable, but it is only meaningful during consecutive searches; see the detailed introduction later.
- `RegExp.prototype.source`: returns the string form of the regular expression (excluding the slashes); this property is read-only.

```js
var r = /abc/igm;

r.lastIndex // 0
r.source // "abc" the string form of the regular expression
```



## 3. Instance Methods

### 3.1 RegExp.prototype.test(): Whether the Current Pattern Matches the Argument String, Returns a Boolean

The `test` method of a regular expression instance object **returns a boolean indicating whether the current pattern can match the argument string**.

```js
/cat/.test('cats and dogs') // true verify whether the string contains cat
```

The code above verifies whether the argument string contains `cat`, and the result returns `true`.

If the regular expression has the `g` modifier, each `test` call starts matching forward from the position where the previous one ended.

```js
var r = /x/g; // with the g global match modifier
var s = '_x_x';

r.lastIndex // 0  the position where the next search begins
r.test(s) // true internal principle: matching starts from position 0, finds 'x' at position 1, returns true, and sets lastIndex to 2

r.lastIndex // 2 the position where the next search begins
r.test(s) // true  internal principle: matching starts from position 2, finds 'x' at position 3, returns true, and sets lastIndex to 4

r.lastIndex // 4 the position where the next search begins
r.test(s) // false internal principle: matching starts from position 4, does not find 'x', returns false
```

The regular expression in the code above uses the `g` modifier, indicating a global search with multiple results. Then `test` is used three times, each time starting the search at the position after the previous match.

With the `g` modifier, you can use the regular expression object's `lastIndex` property to specify the starting search position.

```js
var r = /x/g;
var s = '_x_x';

r.lastIndex = 4; // the lastIndex property is readable and writable; after changing it, the test method matches from that position
r.test(s) // false

r.lastIndex // 0  reset to 0
r.test(s) // true
```

The code above specifies starting the search from the fifth position of the string, which is empty, so it returns `false`. At the same time, the `lastIndex` property is reset to `0`, so the second execution of `r.test(s)` returns `true`.

**Note** that **with the `g` modifier, the regular expression internally remembers the previous `lastIndex` property**; in this case you should not change the string being matched, otherwise there may be some hard-to-detect errors.

```js
var r = /bb/g;
r.test('bb') // true  since it has the g modifier, after matching it changes lastIndex to 2
r.test('-bb-') // false matching 'bb' starting from position 2, not found
```

In the code above, since the regular expression `r` starts matching from the previous `lastIndex` position, the second execution of the `test` method produces an unexpected result.

The `lastIndex` property is only valid for the same regular expression, so the following is incorrect.

```js
var count = 0;
while (/a/g.test('babaa')) count++;
```

The code above causes an infinite loop, because the match condition of each `while` iteration is a new regular expression, which causes the `lastIndex` property to always equal 0.

If the regular pattern is an **empty string, it matches all strings**.

```js
new RegExp('').test('abc')
// true
```



### 3.2 RegExp.prototype.exec(): Return the Match Result; If There Is a Match, Return an Array Whose Members Are the Matched Substrings, Otherwise Return null

The `exec` method of a regular expression instance object is used to **return the match result. If a match is found, it returns an array whose members are the successfully matched substrings, otherwise it returns `null`.**

```js
var s = '_x_x';
var r1 = /x/;
var r2 = /y/;

r1.exec(s) // ["x"] returns one member
r2.exec(s) // null
```

In the code above, the regular expression object `r1` matches successfully and returns an array whose member is the match result; the regular expression object `r2` fails to match and returns `null`.

**If the regular expression contains parentheses (i.e. contains "group matches"), the returned array includes multiple members**. The first member is the result of the entire successful match, and the subsequent members are the successfully matched groups corresponding to the parentheses. That is, the second member corresponds to the first set of parentheses, the third member corresponds to the second set of parentheses, and so on. The `length` property of the entire array equals the number of group matches plus 1.

```js
var s = '_x_x';
var r = /_(x)/; // contains parentheses, group match

r.exec(s) // ["_x", "x"]  returns multiple members; the first member is the result of the entire match, the second member is the result of the parenthesized match
```

The `exec` method in the code above returns an array. The first member is the result of the entire match, and the second member is the result of the parenthesized match.

The array returned by the `exec` method also contains the following two properties:

- `input`: the entire original string.
- `index`: the start position where the entire pattern matched successfully (counted from 0).

```js
var r = /a(b+)a/;
var arr = r.exec('_abbba_aba_');

arr // ["abbba", "bbb"] // the first member is the result of the entire match, the second member is the result of the parenthesized match

arr.index // 1  indicates that the match succeeded starting at position 1
arr.input // "_abbba_aba_"
```

The `index` property in the code above equals 1 because the match succeeded starting from the second position of the original string.

If the regular expression has the `g` modifier added, you can use the `exec` method multiple times, and the next search starts from the position where the previous successful match ended.

```js
var reg = /a/g; // with the 'g' modifier
var str = 'abc_abc_abc'

var r1 = reg.exec(str);
r1 // ["a"]
r1.index // 0 match succeeded at position 0
reg.lastIndex // 1  the next match start position is 1

var r2 = reg.exec(str);
r2 // ["a"]
r2.index // 4 match succeeded at position 4
reg.lastIndex // 5 the next match start position is 5

var r3 = reg.exec(str);
r3 // ["a"]
r3.index // 8 match succeeded at position 8
reg.lastIndex // 9 the next match start position is 9

var r4 = reg.exec(str);
r4 // null no match found, returns null
reg.lastIndex // 0 the next match position is 0
```

The code above uses the `exec` method four times in succession; the first three all match forward from the position where the previous match ended. After the third match ends, the entire string has reached its end, the match result returns `null`, and the `lastIndex` property of the regular expression instance object is reset to `0`, meaning the fourth match will start from the beginning.

Taking advantage of the fact that the `g` modifier allows multiple matches, you can complete all matches with a single loop.

```js
var reg = /a/g;
var str = 'abc_abc_abc'

while(true) {
  var match = reg.exec(str);
  if (!match) break;
  console.log('#' + match.index + ':' + match[0]);
}
// #0:a
// #4:a
// #8:a
```

In the code above, as long as the `exec` method does not return `null`, it keeps looping, outputting the match position and matched text each time.

The `lastIndex` property of a regular expression instance object is not only readable but also writable. When the `g` modifier is set, as long as you manually set the value of `lastIndex`, matching will start from the specified position.



## 4. String Instance Methods

**Among the string instance methods, four are related to regular expressions.**

- `String.prototype.match()`: returns an array whose members are all matched substrings.
- `String.prototype.search()`: searches according to the given regular expression and returns an integer indicating the position where the match begins.
- `String.prototype.replace()`: replaces according to the given regular expression and returns the replaced string.
- `String.prototype.split()`: splits the string according to the given rules and returns an array containing the split members.

### 4.1 String.prototype.match(): Match, Return an Array of Match Results or null

The `match` method of a string instance object **performs a regular match on the string and returns the match result**.

```js
var s = '_x_x';
var r1 = /x/;
var r2 = /y/;

s.match(r1) // ["x"] // without the g modifier, it returns the result as soon as one match is found
s.match(r2) // null
```

As you can see from the code above, the string's `match` method is very similar to the regular expression object's `exec` method: a successful match returns an array, and a failed match returns `null`.

If the regular expression has the `g` modifier, this method behaves differently from the regular expression object's `exec` method; it returns all successful match results at once.

```js
var s = 'abba';
var r = /a/g;

s.match(r) // ["a", "a"]  with the g modifier, it returns all results as array members
r.exec(s) // ["a"] the exec method of a regex instance returns only one
```

Setting **the regular expression's `lastIndex` property has no effect on the `match` method**; matching always starts from the first character of the string.

```js
var r = /a|b/g;
r.lastIndex = 7;
'xaxb'.match(r) // ['a', 'b']
r.lastIndex // 0
```

The code above shows that setting the `lastIndex` property of a regular expression object has no effect.



### 4.2 String.prototype.search(): Return the Position of the First Match That Satisfies the Condition, or -1 If None

The `search` method of a string object **returns the position in the entire string of the first match result that satisfies the condition**. **If there is no match, it returns `-1`.**

```js
'_x_x'.search(/x/)
// 1
```

In the code above, the first match result appears at position `1` of the string.



### 4.3 String.prototype.replace(): Replace Matched Values; the First Argument Is a Substring or Regex, the Second Is the Replacement Content

The `replace` method of a string object can **replace matched values**. It accepts two arguments: the first is a regular expression representing the search pattern, and the second is the replacement content.

```js
str.replace(search, replacement)
```

If the regular expression does not have the `g` modifier, it replaces the first successfully matched value; otherwise it replaces all successfully matched values.

```js
'aaa'.replace('a', 'b') // "baa"
'aaa'.replace(/a/, 'b') // "baa" without the g modifier, only the first match is matched and replaced
'aaa'.replace(/a/g, 'b') // "bbb" with the g modifier, it matches globally and replaces all matched values
```

In the code above, the last regular expression uses the `g` modifier, causing all `b`s to be replaced.

One application of the `replace` method is to remove whitespace from the beginning and end of a string.

```js
var str = '  #id div.class  ';

str.replace(/^\s+|\s+$/g, '')
// "#id div.class"
```

The **second argument of the `replace` method can use the dollar sign `$` to refer to the replaced content**.

- `$&`: the matched substring.
- $`: the text before the match result.
- `$'`: the text after the match result.
- `$n`: the content of the `n`-th successfully matched group, where `n` is a natural number starting from 1.
- `$$`: refers to the dollar sign `$` itself.

```js
'hello world'.replace(/(\w+)\s(\w+)/, '$2 $1')
// "world hello"
/* explanation:
$n is used for group content; $2 is the second matched group, i.e. world; $1 is the first matched group, i.e. hello
*/

'abc'.replace('b', '[$`-$&-$\'-$$]')
// "a[a-b-c-$]c"
/* explanation:
$` is the text before the match result b, i.e. a
$& is the matched substring, i.e. b
$' is the text after the match result b, i.e. c
$$ represents the $ sign itself
*/
```

In the code above, the first example swaps the positions of the matched groups, and the second example rewrites the matched value.

The **second argument of the `replace` method can also be a function, replacing each matched content with the function's return value**.

```js
'3 and 5'.replace(/[0-9]+/g, function (match) {
  return 2 * match; // the match argument is the matched content
})
// "6 and 10"

var a = 'The quick brown fox jumped over the lazy dog.';
var pattern = /quick|brown|lazy/ig;

a.replace(pattern, function replacer(match) {
  return match.toUpperCase();
});
// The QUICK BROWN fox jumped over the LAZY dog.
```

The replacement function used as the second argument of the `replace` method can accept multiple arguments. The first argument is the captured content, and the second argument is the captured group match (**there are as many corresponding arguments as there are group matches**). In addition, two more arguments can be added at the end: the second-to-last argument is the position of the captured content in the entire string (for example, starting from the fifth position), and the last argument is the original string. Below is an example of a web page template replacement.

```js
var prices = {
  'p1': '$1.99',
  'p2': '$9.99',
  'p3': '$5.00'
};

var template = '<span id="p1"></span>'
  + '<span id="p2"></span>'
  + '<span id="p3"></span>';

template.replace(
  /(<span id=")(.*?)(">)(<\/span>)/g,
  function(match, $1, $2, $3, $4, index, str){
    return $1 + $2 + $3 + prices[$2] + $4;
  }
);
// "<span id="p1">$1.99</span><span id="p2">$9.99</span><span id="p3">$5.00</span>"

// explanation:
// match is the entire matched content: <span id="p*"></span>

// the following arguments are the matched group contents; there are as many arguments as there are groups
// $1 <span id="
// $2  p1~p3
// $3  ">
// $4  </span>

// two more arguments can be accepted afterward:
// the second-to-last is: the position of the captured content (i.e. the match content) in the entire string
// the last is: the original string

```

In the capture pattern of the code above, there are four sets of parentheses, so four group matches are produced, represented by `$1` through `$4` in the match function. The match function's purpose is to insert prices into the template.



### 4.4 String.prototype.split(): Split a String by Given Rules, Return an Array

The `split` method of a string object **splits the string according to regular rules and returns an array composed of the split parts.**

```js
str.split(separator, [limit])
```

This method accepts **two arguments**: the first is a regular expression representing the separator rule, and the second is the maximum number of members (array length) of the returned array.

```js
// non-regex split
'a,  b,c, d'.split(',')
// [ 'a', '  b', 'c', ' d' ]

// regex split, removing extra spaces
'a,  b,c, d'.split(/, */)
// [ 'a', 'b', 'c', 'd' ]

// specify the maximum number of members (array length) of the returned array
'a,  b,c, d'.split(/, */, 2)
[ 'a', 'b' ]
```

The code above uses a regular expression to remove the spaces after the commas in the substrings.

```js
// example 1
'aaa*a*'.split(/a*/)
// [ '', '*', '*' ]  the separators, i.e. the filtered-out symbols,

// example 2
'aaa**a*'.split(/a*/)
// ["", "*", "*", "*"]
```

The split rule in the code above is zero or more occurrences of `a`. Since regex defaults to greedy matching, the first separator in example 1 is `aaa` and the second separator is `a`, splitting the string into three parts, including the empty string at the beginning. In example 2, the first separator is `aaa`, the second separator is zero `a`s (i.e. an empty string), and the third separator is `a`, so the string is split into four parts.

If the regular expression **has parentheses**, the parenthesized matched part is also returned as an array member.

```js
'aaa*a*'.split(/(a*)/)
// [ '', 'aaa', '*', 'a', '*' ]
```

The regular expression in the code above uses parentheses; the first group match is `aaa` and the second group match is `a`, and both are returned as array members.



## 5. Matching Rules

It is easier to understand by studying alongside the runoob tutorial: <https://www.runoob.com/regexp/regexp-tutorial.html>

Online regex testing and common regular expressions: <http://c.runoob.com/front-end/854>



The rules of regular expressions are quite complex; these rules are introduced one by one below.

### 5.1 Literal Characters and Metacharacters

**Most characters in a regular expression have their literal meaning, for example `/a/` matches `a` and `/b/` matches `b`**. If a character in a regular expression represents only its literal meaning (like the `a` and `b` above), it is called a "literal character".

```
/dog/.test('old dog') // true
```

In the code above, the `dog` in the regular expression is a literal character, so `/dog/` matches `old dog`, because it simply represents the three letters `d`, `o`, `g` joined together.

In addition to literal characters, **some characters have special meanings and do not represent their literal meaning. They are called "metacharacters"**, mainly the following.

#### (1) The Dot Character (.) — Like a Wildcard

The dot character (`.`) **matches any single character except carriage return (`\r`), newline (`\n`), line separator (`\u2028`) and paragraph separator (`\u2029`)**. Note that for characters with code points greater than `0xFFFF`, the dot character cannot match correctly and treats it as two characters.

```js
/c.t/        // matches the case where c and t have any single character between them; note: one . matches only one character

'cet c2t c-t c.t coot c我t'.match(/c.t/g)
// ["cet", "c2t", "c-t", "c.t", "c我t"]

'cet c2t c-t c.t coot c我t'.match(/c..t/g)
//["coot"]
```

In the code above, `c.t` matches the case where there is any single character between `c` and `t`, as long as these three characters are on the same line, such as `cat`, `c2t`, `c-t`, etc. (the `我` in the example is a Chinese character used to show that `.` matches a single character), but it does not match `coot`.

#### (2) Anchor Characters (^) ($) — Start Position and End Position

Anchor characters are used to indicate the position of a character, mainly two characters.

- **`^` indicates the start position of the string**
- **`$` indicates the end position of the string**

```js
// test must appear at the start position
/^test/.test('test123') // true

// test must appear at the end position
/test$/.test('new test') // true

// from start to end there is only test
/^test$/.test('test') // true
/^test$/.test('test test') // false
```

#### (3) The Alternation Operator (`|`) — Indicates an "OR Relationship"

The vertical bar symbol (`|`) indicates an "**OR relationship**" (OR) in a regular expression, i.e. `cat|dog` means matching `cat` or `dog`.

```js
/11|22/.test('911') // true
```

In the code above, the regular expression specifies that it must match `11` or `22`.

Multiple alternation operators can be used together.

```js
// matches one of fred, barney, betty
/fred|barney|betty/
```

The alternation operator includes the characters before and after it; for example `/ab|cd/` means matching `ab` or `cd`, not matching `b` or `c`. To modify this behavior, you can use parentheses.

```js
/a( |\t)b/.test('a\tb') // true
```

The code above means that there is a space or a tab between `a` and `b`.

Other metacharacters also include `\`, `\*`, `+`, `?`, `()`, `[]`, `{}`, etc., which will be explained below.

### 5.2 The Escape Character (\ Backslash)

For metacharacters with special meaning in a regular expression, if you want to match them literally, you need to add a backslash before them. For example, to match `+`, you write `\+`.

```js
/1+1/.test('1+1')
// false

/1\+1/.test('1+1')
// true
```

In the code above, the first regular expression does not match because the plus sign is a metacharacter and does not represent itself. The second regular expression uses a backslash to escape the plus sign, so it matches successfully.

In regular expressions, **there are 12 characters in total that need to be escaped with a backslash**: `^`, `.`, `[`, `$`, `(`, `)`, `|`, `*`, `+`, `?`, `{`, and `\`. Note especially that if you use the `RegExp` method to create a regex object, escaping requires two backslashes, because the string is escaped once internally first.

```js
(new RegExp('1\+1')).test('1+1')
// false

(new RegExp('1\\+1')).test('1+1')
// true
```

In the code above, `RegExp` is used as a constructor with a string argument. However, inside the string the backslash is also an escape character, so it is escaped once by the backslash first and then escaped once by the regular expression, thus requiring two backslashes for escaping.

### 5.3 Special Characters

Regular expressions provide ways to express some non-printable special characters.

- `\cX` represents `Ctrl-[X]`, where `X` is any English letter from A-Z, used to match control characters.

- `[\b]` matches the backspace key (U+0008); do not confuse it with `\b`.

- `\n` matches the newline key.

- `\r` matches the carriage return key.

- `\t` matches the tab character (U+0009).

- `\v` matches the vertical tab (U+000B).

- `\f` matches the form feed (U+000C).

- `\0` matches the `null` character (U+0000).

- `\xhh` matches a character represented by a two-digit hexadecimal number (`\x00`-`\xFF`).

- `\uhhhh` matches a Unicode character represented by a four-digit hexadecimal number (`\u0000`-`\uFFFF`). 



### 5.4 Character Classes

A character class (class) **indicates that there is a series of characters to choose from, and matching any one of them is sufficient**. All the characters to choose from are placed inside **square brackets**; for example `[xyz]` means matching any one of `x`, `y`, `z`.

```js
/[abc]/.test('hello world') // false
/[abc]/.test('apple') // true  any one of a, b, c
```

In the code above, the string `hello world` does not contain any of the three letters `a`, `b`, `c`, so it returns `false`; the string `apple` contains the letter `a`, so it returns `true`.

Two characters have special meaning within a character class.

##### (1) The Caret (^ — Exclusion)

If the first character inside the square brackets is `[^]`, it means **any character except those in the character class can be matched**. For example, `[^xyz]` means any character except `x`, `y`, `z` can be matched.

```js
/[^abc]/.test('bbc news') // true  the string contains characters other than a, b, c
/[^abc]/.test('bbc') // false  the string has no characters other than a, b, c
```

In the code above, the string `bbc news` contains characters other than `a`, `b`, `c`, so it returns `true`; the string `bbc` contains no characters other than `a`, `b`, `c`, so it returns `false`.

If there are no other characters inside the square brackets, i.e. **only `[^]`, it means matching all characters, including the newline character**. In contrast, the dot as a metacharacter (`.`) does not include the newline character.

```js
var s = 'Please yes\nmake my day!';

s.match(/yes.*day/) // null
s.match(/yes[^]*day/) // [ 'yes\nmake my day']
```

In the code above, the string `s` contains a newline character; the dot does not include the newline character, so the first regular expression fails to match; the second regular expression `[^]` includes all characters, so it matches successfully.

> Note that the caret only has special meaning in the first position of a character class; otherwise it has its literal meaning.

##### (2) The Hyphen (- — Continuous Range of Characters)

In some cases, for a continuous sequence of characters, the hyphen (`-`) is used to provide a shorthand form indicating a **continuous range of characters**. For example, `[abc]` can be written as `[a-c]`, `[0123456789]` can be written as `[0-9]`, and similarly `[A-Z]` represents the 26 uppercase letters.

```js
/a-z/.test('b') // false
/[a-z]/.test('b') // true
```

In the code above, when the hyphen (dash) does not appear inside square brackets, it does not have the shorthand function and only represents its literal meaning, so it does not match the character `b`. Only when the hyphen is used inside square brackets does it represent a continuous sequence of characters.

The following are all valid character class shorthand forms.

```js
[0-9.,]
[0-9a-fA-F]
[a-zA-Z0-9-]
[1-31] // note: this does not represent 1 to 31, only 1 to 3
```

In the code above, the last character class `[1-31]` does not represent `1` to `31`, only `1` to `3`.

The hyphen can also be used to specify a range of Unicode characters.

```js
var str = "\u0130\u0131\u0132";
/[\u0128-\uFFFF]/.test(str)
// true
```

In the code above, `\u0128-\uFFFF` means matching all characters with code points between `0128` and `FFFF`.

In addition, do not overuse the hyphen to set a very large range, otherwise you may very likely select unexpected characters. The most typical example is `[A-z]`; on the surface it selects the 52 letters from uppercase `A` to lowercase `z`, but since in ASCII encoding there are other characters between uppercase and lowercase letters, unexpected results occur.

```js
/[A-z]/.test('\\') // true
```

In the code above, since the ASCII code of the backslash (`'\\'`) is between uppercase and lowercase letters, it gets selected.



### 5.5 Predefined Patterns (Shorthand for Common Patterns \d \D \w \W \s \S \b \B)

Predefined patterns refer to **shorthand forms for certain common patterns**.

- `\d` matches any digit from 0-9, equivalent to `[0-9]`. **(digit)**
- `\D` matches all characters other than 0-9, equivalent to `[^0-9]`. **(non-digit)**
- `\w` matches any letter, digit, or underscore, equivalent to `[A-Za-z0-9_]`. **(letter, digit, underscore)**
- `\W` matches characters other than all letters, digits, and underscores, equivalent to `[^A-Za-z0-9_]`. **(non: letter, digit, underscore)**
- `\s` matches whitespace (including newline, tab, space, etc.), equivalent to `[ \t\r\n\v\f]`. **(whitespace)**
- `\S` matches non-whitespace characters, equivalent to `[^ \t\r\n\v\f]`. **(non-whitespace)**
- `\b` matches a word boundary. **(word boundary)**
- `\B` matches a non-word boundary, i.e. inside a word. **(non-word boundary)**

Below are some examples.

```js
// \s example
/\s\w*/.exec('hello world') // [" world"]

// \b example
/\bworld/.test('hello world') // true
/\bworld/.test('hello-world') // true
/\bworld/.test('helloworld') // false

// \B example
/\Bworld/.test('hello-world') // false
/\Bworld/.test('helloworld') // true
```

In the code above, `\s` represents whitespace, so the match result includes the space. `\b` represents a word boundary, so the beginning of `world` must be independent (whether the end is independent is unspecified) for it to match. Similarly, `\B` represents a non-word boundary, so it only matches when the beginning of `world` is not independent.

Usually, a regular expression stops matching when it encounters a newline character (`\n`).

```js
var html = "<b>Hello</b>\n<i>world!</i>";

/.*/.exec(html)[0]
// "<b>Hello</b>"
```

In the code above, the string `html` contains a newline character, and the dot character (`.`) does not match the newline, so the match result may not be as intended. Using the `\s` character class here can include the newline character.

```js
var html = "<b>Hello</b>\n<i>world!</i>";

/[\S\s]*/.exec(html)[0]
// "<b>Hello</b>\n<i>world!</i>"
```

In the code above, `[\S\s]` refers to all characters.



### 5.6 Repetition Classes ( {n} {n,} {n,m} )

The exact number of times a pattern matches is expressed using curly braces (`{}`). `{n}` means repeating exactly `n` times, `{n,}` means repeating at least `n` times, and `{n,m}` means repeating no fewer than `n` times and no more than `m` times.

```js
/lo{2}k/.test('look') // true  2 o's
/lo{2,5}k/.test('looook') // true   2 to 5 o's
```

In the code above, the first pattern specifies that `o` appears consecutively 2 times, and the second pattern specifies that `o` appears consecutively between 2 and 5 times.



### 5.7 Quantifiers (?) (*) (+)

Quantifiers are used to set **the number of times a pattern appears**.

- `?` the question mark means a pattern appears **0 or 1 times**, equivalent to `{0, 1}`.
- `*` the asterisk means a pattern appears **0 or more times**, equivalent to `{0,}`.
- `+` the plus sign means a pattern appears **1 or more times**, equivalent to `{1,}`.

```js
// t appears 0 or 1 times
/t?est/.test('test') // true
/t?est/.test('est') // true

// t appears 1 or more times
/t+est/.test('test') // true
/t+est/.test('ttest') // true
/t+est/.test('est') // false

// t appears 0 or more times
/t*est/.test('test') // true
/t*est/.test('ttest') // true
/t*est/.test('tttest') // true
/t*est/.test('est') // true
```



### 5.8 Greedy Mode (Non-greedy Mode Can Be Used with Quantifiers)

By default, the three quantifiers in the previous section all match as much as possible, i.e. **they match until the next character does not satisfy the matching rule**. This is called greedy mode.

```js
var s = 'aaa';
s.match(/a+/) // ["aaa"]
```

In the code above, the pattern is `/a+/`, meaning matching one or more `a`s. So how many `a`s will it match? Because the default is greedy mode, it keeps matching until the character `a` no longer appears, so the match result is three `a`s.

If you want to change greedy mode to non-greedy mode, you can add a question mark after the quantifier.

```js
var s = 'aaa';
s.match(/a+?/) // ["a"]
```

In the code above, a question mark is added at the end of the pattern `/a+?/`, which changes it to **non-greedy mode: once the condition is satisfied, it stops matching further**.

In addition to the non-greedy plus sign, there are also the non-greedy asterisk (`*`) and the non-greedy question mark (`?`).

- `+?`: means a pattern appears 1 or more times, matched in non-greedy mode.
- `*?`: means a pattern appears 0 or more times, matched in non-greedy mode.
- `??`: means a pattern appears 0 or 1 times, matched in non-greedy mode.

```js
'abb'.match(/ab*b/) // ["abb"]
'abb'.match(/ab*?b/) // ["ab"]

'abb'.match(/ab?b/) // ["abb"]
'abb'.match(/ab??b/) // ["ab"]
```



### 5.9 Modifiers

A modifier represents additional rules for the pattern, placed at the very end of the regular pattern.

Modifiers can be used singly or multiple together.

```js
// single modifier
var regex = /test/i;

// multiple modifiers
var regex = /test/ig;
```

#### (1) The g Modifier (Global Match)

By default, after the first successful match, the regular expression object stops matching further. The `g` modifier indicates a global match (global); after adding it, the regular expression object matches all results that meet the condition, mainly used for searching and replacing.

```js
var regex = /b/;
var str = 'abba';

regex.test(str); // true
regex.test(str); // true
regex.test(str); // true
```

In the code above, the regular pattern does not contain the `g` modifier, so each time it matches from the beginning of the string. Therefore, three consecutive matches all return `true`.

```js
var regex = /b/g;
var str = 'abba';

regex.test(str); // true
regex.test(str); // true
regex.test(str); // false
```

In the code above, the regular pattern contains the `g` modifier, so each time it matches forward from where the previous match succeeded. Because the string `abba` has only two `b`s, the first two matches return `true` and the third returns `false`.

#### (2) The i Modifier (Case-Insensitive)

By default, a regular expression object is case-sensitive; adding the `i` modifier means ignoring case (ignoreCase).

```js
/abc/.test('ABC') // false
/abc/i.test('ABC') // true
```

The code above shows that after adding the `i` modifier, case is not considered, so the pattern `abc` matches the string `ABC`.

#### (3) The m Modifier (Makes ^ and $ Recognize Newlines)

The `m` modifier indicates multiline mode (multiline) and modifies the behavior of `^` and `$`. By default (i.e. without the `m` modifier), `^` and `$` match the beginning and end of the string; after adding the `m` modifier, `^` and `$` also match the beginning and end of each line, i.e. `^` and `$` recognize the newline character (`\n`).

```js
/world$/.test('hello world\n') // false
/world$/m.test('hello world\n') // true
```

In the code above, there is a newline character at the end of the string. Without the `m` modifier, the match fails because the end of the string is not `world`; after adding it, `$` can match the end of a line.

```js
/^b/m.test('a\nb') // true
```

The code above requires matching `b` at the beginning of a line. Without the `m` modifier, `b` can only be at the beginning of the string. After adding the `m` modifier, the newline character `\n` is also considered the beginning of a line.

### 5.10 Group Matching

#### (1) Overview (Grouping with Parentheses)

Parentheses in a regular expression indicate group matching; the pattern inside the parentheses can be used to match the content of the group.

```js
/fred+/.test('fredd') // true the + plus sign means repeating the letter d
/(fred)+/.test('fredfred') // true  the + plus sign means repeating the word fred
```

In the code above, the first pattern has no parentheses, so `+` only means repeating the letter `d`; the second pattern has parentheses, so `+` means matching the word `fred`.

Below is another example of group capturing.

```js
var m = 'abcabc'.match(/(.)b(.)/);
m
// ['abc', 'a', 'c']
```

In the code above, the regular expression `/(.)b(.)/` uses two sets of parentheses in total; the first set captures `a` and the second set captures `c`.

Note that when using group matching, you should not also use the `g` modifier, otherwise the `match` method will not capture the group content.

```js
var m = 'abcabc'.match(/(.)b(.)/g);
m // ['abc', 'abc']
```

The code above uses a regular expression with the `g` modifier, so the `match` method only captures the part matching the entire expression. In this case you must use the regular expression's `exec` method together with a loop to read the group captures of each round of matching.

```js
var str = 'abcabc';
var reg = /(.)b(.)/g;
while (true) {
  var result = reg.exec(str);
  if (!result) break;
  console.log(result);
}
// ["abc", "a", "c"]
// ["abc", "a", "c"]
```

Within a regular expression, you can also use `\n` to reference the content matched by parentheses, where `n` is a natural number starting from 1, indicating the parentheses in corresponding order.

```js
/(.)b(.)\1b\2/.test("abcabc")
// true
```

In the code above, `\1` represents the content matched by the first set of parentheses (i.e. `a`), and `\2` represents the content matched by the second set of parentheses (i.e. `c`).

Below is another example.

```js
/y(..)(.)\2\1/.test('yabccab') // true
```

Parentheses can also be nested.

```js
/y((..)\2)\1/.test('yabababab') // true
```

In the code above, `\1` points to the outer parentheses and `\2` points to the inner parentheses.

Group matching is very useful; below is an example of matching a web page tag.

```js
var tagName = /<([^>]+)>[^<]*<\/\1>/;

tagName.exec("<b>bold</b>")[1]
// 'b'
```

In the code above, the parentheses match the tag within the angle brackets, and `\1` represents the corresponding closing tag.

With a slight modification, the code above can capture tags with attributes.

```js
var html = '<b class="hello">Hello</b><i>world</i>';
var tag = /<(\w+)([^>]*)>(.*?)<\/\1>/g;

var match = tag.exec(html);

match[1] // "b"
match[2] // " class="hello""
match[3] // "Hello"

match = tag.exec(html);

match[1] // "i"
match[2] // ""
match[3] // "world"
```

#### (2) Non-capturing Groups

`(?:x)` is called a non-capturing group, meaning **it does not return the content matched by that group, i.e. this set of parentheses is not counted in the match result**.

For the purpose of non-capturing groups, consider the following scenario: suppose you need to match `foo` or `foofoo`; the regular expression should be written as `/(foo){1, 2}/`, but this takes up one group match. In this case, you can use a non-capturing group, changing the regular expression to `/(?:foo){1, 2}/`, which has the same effect as the previous regex but does not separately output the content inside the parentheses.

See the example below.

```js
var m = 'abc'.match(/(?:.)b(.)/);
m // ["abc", "c"]
```

The pattern in the code above uses two sets of parentheses in total. The first set is a non-capturing group, so the final returned result does not include the first set, only the content matched by the second set.

Below is a regular expression used to decompose a URL.

```js
// normal match
var url = /(http|ftp):\/\/([^/\r\n]+)(\/[^\r\n]*)?/;

url.exec('http://google.com/');
// ["http://google.com/", "http", "google.com", "/"]

// non-capturing group match
var url = /(?:http|ftp):\/\/([^/\r\n]+)(\/[^\r\n]*)?/;

url.exec('http://google.com/');
// ["http://google.com/", "google.com", "/"]
```

In the code above, the former regular expression is a normal match, and the first set of parentheses returns the network protocol; the latter regular expression is a non-capturing match, and the returned result does not include the network protocol.

#### (3) Lookahead Assertion

`x(?=y)` is called a positive lookahead assertion**: `x` is only matched when it is in front of `y`, and `y` is not counted in the return result**. For example, to match a number followed by a percent sign, you can write `/\d+(?=%)/`.

In a "lookahead assertion", the part inside the parentheses is not returned.

```js
var m = 'abc'.match(/b(?=c)/);
m // ["b"]
```

The code above uses a lookahead assertion; `b` is matched because it is in front of `c`, but the `c` corresponding to the parentheses is not returned.

#### (4) Negative Lookahead Assertion

`x(?!y)` is called a negative lookahead assertion, **`x` is only matched when it is not in front of `y`, and `y` is not counted in the return result**. For example, to match a number not followed by a percent sign, you write `/\d+(?!%)/`.

```js
/\d+(?!\.)/.exec('3.14')
// ["14"]
```

In the code above, the regular expression specifies that only numbers not in front of a decimal point are matched, so the returned result is `14`.

In a "negative lookahead assertion", the part inside the parentheses is not returned.

```js
var m = 'abd'.match(/b(?!c)/);
m // ['b']
```

The code above uses a negative lookahead assertion; `b` is matched because it is not in front of `c`, and the `d` corresponding to the parentheses is not returned.





## 11. The JSON Object

## 1. JSON Format

The JSON format (short for JavaScript Object Notation) is a text format used for data exchange, proposed by Douglas Crockford in 2001 with the goal of replacing the cumbersome and heavy XML format.

Compared with the XML format, the JSON format has two notable advantages: it is simple to write and clear at a glance; and it conforms to native JavaScript syntax, so it can be processed directly by the interpreter engine without adding extra parsing code. Therefore, JSON was quickly adopted and has become the standard format for data exchange among major websites, and it has been written into standards.

**Each JSON object is a value, which may be an array or an object, or a primitive value**. In short, **it can only be one value**, not two or more values.

JSON has strict **rules** for the types and formats of values.

> 1. Composite-type values can only be arrays or objects, not functions, regular expression objects, or date objects.
> 2. There are only four primitive-type values: strings, numbers (which must be in decimal), booleans, and `null` (you cannot use `NaN`, `Infinity`, `-Infinity`, or `undefined`).
> 3. Strings must be represented with double quotes, not single quotes.
> 4. Object keys must be placed inside double quotes.
> 5. No comma can be added after the last member of an array or object.

The following are all valid JSON.

```js
["one", "two", "three"]

{ "one": 1, "two": 2, "three": 3 }

{"names": ["Zhang San", "Li Si"] }

[ { "name": "Zhang San"}, {"name": "Li Si"} ]
```

The following are all invalid JSON.

```js
{ name: "Zhang San", 'age': 32 }  // property names must use double quotes

[32, 64, 128, 0xFFF] // hexadecimal values cannot be used

{ "name": "Zhang San", "age": undefined } // undefined cannot be used

{ "name": "Zhang San",
  "birthday": new Date('Fri, 26 Aug 2011 07:13:10 GMT'),
  "getName": function () {
      return this.name;
  }
} // property values cannot use functions and date objects
```

**Note that `null`, an empty array, and an empty object are all valid JSON values.**



## 2. The JSON Object

The `JSON` object is a native object of JavaScript used to process JSON-format data. It has two static methods: `JSON.stringify()` and `JSON.parse()`.



## 3. JSON.stringify(): Convert to a JSON String

### 3.1 Basic Usage

The `JSON.stringify` method is used to **convert a value into a JSON string**. This string conforms to the JSON format and can be restored by the `JSON.parse` method.

```js
// a single string, number, boolean, null, empty array, or empty object are all valid JSON formats.
JSON.stringify('abc') // ""abc"" note: a string converted to a JSON string has two pairs of double quotes
JSON.stringify(1) // "1"
JSON.stringify(false) // "false"
JSON.stringify(null) // "null"
JSON.stringify([]) // "[]"
JSON.stringify({}) // "{}"

JSON.stringify([1, "false", false])
// '[1,"false",false]'

JSON.stringify({ name: "Zhang San" })
// '{"name":"Zhang San"}'
```

The code above converts values of various types into JSON strings.

Note that **for primitive-type strings, the conversion result has double quotes**.

```js
JSON.stringify('foo') === "foo" // false
JSON.stringify('foo') === "\"foo\"" // true
```

In the code above, the string `foo` is converted to `"\"foo\""`. This is because when restoring it later, the inner double quotes let the JavaScript engine know that this is a string, not some other type of value.

```js
JSON.stringify(false) // "false"
JSON.stringify('false') // "\"false\""
```

In the code above, without the inner double quotes, when restoring later the engine could not know whether the original value is a boolean or a string.

**If an object's property is `undefined`, a function, or an XML object, that property is filtered out by `JSON.stringify`**.

```js
var obj = {
  a: undefined,
  b: function () {}
};

JSON.stringify(obj) // "{}" object properties that are undefined, functions, or XML objects are filtered out
```

In the code above, the `a` property of the object `obj` is `undefined` and the `b` property is a function, so both are filtered out by `JSON.stringify`.

**If an array member is `undefined`, a function, or an XML object, these values are converted to `null`.**

```js
var arr = [undefined, function () {}];
JSON.stringify(arr) // "[null,null]" array members that are undefined, functions, or XML objects are converted to null
```

In the code above, the members of the array `arr` are `undefined` and a function, and they are both converted to `null`.

**Regular expression objects are converted to empty objects**.

```js
JSON.stringify(/foo/) // "{}"
```

The `JSON.stringify` method **ignores an object's non-enumerable properties**.

```js
var obj = {};
Object.defineProperties(obj, {
  'foo': {
    value: 1,
    enumerable: true
  },
  'bar': {
    value: 2,
    enumerable: false
  }
});

JSON.stringify(obj); // "{"foo":1}"
```

In the code above, `bar` is a non-enumerable property of the `obj` object, and the `JSON.stringify` method ignores this property.

### 3.2 The Second Argument (an Array — Whitelist of Object Properties; or a Function — Modifies the Return Value)

The `JSON.stringify` method can also **accept an array as a second argument, specifying the properties that need to be converted to a string**.

```js
var obj = {
  'prop1': 'value1',
  'prop2': 'value2',
  'prop3': 'value3'
};

var selectedProperties = ['prop1', 'prop2']; // specify that the prop1 and prop2 properties are converted to a string

JSON.stringify(obj, selectedProperties)
// "{"prop1":"value1","prop2":"value2"}"
```

In the code above, the second argument of the `JSON.stringify` method specifies converting only the two properties `prop1` and `prop2`.

This **whitelist-like array is only valid for object properties, not for arrays.**

```js
JSON.stringify(['a', 'b'], ['0'])
// "["a","b"]"

JSON.stringify({0: 'a', 1: 'b'}, ['0'])
// "{"0":"a"}"
```

In the code above, the second argument specifies that the JSON format converts only property `0`; in fact this is invalid for arrays and only valid for objects.

The second argument can also **be a function** used to change the return value of `JSON.stringify`.

```js
function f(key, value) { // receives two arguments: the key and the value
  if (typeof value === "number") {
    value = 2 * value;
  }
  return value;
}

JSON.stringify({ a: 1, b: 2 }, f)
// '{"a": 2,"b": 4}'
```

The `f` function in the code above **accepts two arguments**, namely the **key and the value** of the object being converted. If the value is a number, it multiplies it by `2`; otherwise it returns it unchanged.

Note that this processing function **recursively processes all keys**.

```js
var o = {a: {b: 1}};

function f(key, value) { // each processed object is the value returned by the previous call
  console.log("["+ key +"]:" + value);
  return value;
}

JSON.stringify(o, f)
// []:[object Object]  first call: empty key, value is the entire object o
// [a]:[object Object] second call: key a, value is {b:1}
// [b]:1               third call: key b, value is 1
// '{"a":{"b":1}}'
```

In the code above, the object `o` is processed by the `f` function three times in total, and the last line is the output of `JSON.stringify`. The first call has an empty key and a value of the entire object `o`; the second call has the key `a` and the value `{b: 1}`; the third call has the key `b` and the value 1.

In recursive processing, **each processed object is the value returned by the previous call**.

```js
var o = {a: 1};

function f(key, value) {
  if (typeof value === 'object') {
    return {b: 2};
  }
  return value * 2;
}

JSON.stringify(o, f)
// "{"b": 4}"
```

In the code above, the `f` function modifies the object `o`, and then the `JSON.stringify` method recursively processes the modified object `o`.

If **the processing function returns `undefined` or has no return value, the property is ignored**.

```js
function f(key, value) {
  if (typeof(value) === "string") {
    return undefined;
  }
  return value;
}

JSON.stringify({ a: "abc", b: 123 }, f)
// '{"b": 123}'
```

In the code above, after the `a` property is processed it returns `undefined`, so the property is ignored.

### 3.3 The Third Argument (Improves the Readability of the Returned JSON String; JSON Format)

`JSON.stringify` can also accept a third argument used to **improve the readability of the returned JSON string**. If it is a number, it indicates the number of spaces added before each property (up to a maximum of 10); if it is a string (up to 10 characters), the string is added before each line.

```js
JSON.stringify({ p1: 1, p2: 2 }, null, 2);
/*
"{
  "p1": 1,
  "p2": 2
}"
*/
// when the third argument is a number, it parses normally with JSON.parse()



JSON.stringify({ p1:1, p2:2 }, null, '|-');
/*
"{
|-"p1": 1,
|-"p2": 2
}"
*/
// when the third argument is a string, it throws an error when parsed with JSON.parse()
```



### 3.4 The toJSON Method of the Argument Object (If an Object Has a Custom toJSON Method, Conversion to a String Uses Only That Method's Return Value)

If the argument object has a custom `toJSON` method, then `JSON.stringify` **uses the return value of this method as the argument and ignores the other properties of the original object**.

Below is an ordinary object.

```js
var user = {
  firstName: 'San',
  lastName: 'Zhang',

  get fullName(){
    return this.lastName + this.firstName;
  }
};

JSON.stringify(user)
// "{"firstName":"San","lastName":"Zhang","fullName":"ZhangSan"}"
```

Now, add a `toJSON` method to this object.

```js
var user = {
  firstName: 'San',
  lastName: 'Zhang',

  get fullName(){
    return this.lastName + this.firstName;
  },

  toJSON: function () { // use only the return value of toJSON as the argument, ignoring the other properties of the user object
    return {
      name: this.lastName + this.firstName
    };
  }
};

JSON.stringify(user)
// "{"name":"ZhangSan"}"
```

In the code above, `JSON.stringify` finds that the argument object has a `toJSON` method, so it directly uses the return value of this method as the argument and **ignores the other properties of the original object**.

The `Date` object has its own `toJSON` method.

```js
var date = new Date('2015-01-01');
date.toJSON() // "2015-01-01T00:00:00.000Z"
JSON.stringify(date) // ""2015-01-01T00:00:00.000Z""
```

In the code above, `JSON.stringify` finds that it is processing a `Date` object instance, so it calls the `toJSON` method of this instance object and uses the return value of that method as the argument.

One application of the `toJSON` method is to **automatically convert a regular expression object into a string**. Because `JSON.stringify` cannot convert regular expression objects by default, but after setting the `toJSON` method it can convert them.

```js
var obj = {
  reg: /foo/
};

// when the toJSON method is not set
JSON.stringify(obj) // "{"reg":{}}"

// when the toJSON method is set
RegExp.prototype.toJSON = RegExp.prototype.toString;
JSON.stringify(/foo/) // ""/foo/""
```

The code above defines a `toJSON()` method on the prototype of the regular expression object, pointing it to the `toString()` method, so when converting to JSON format, the regular expression object first calls the `toJSON()` method to convert to a string, and then is processed by the `JSON.stringify()` method.



## 4、JSON.parse()

The `JSON.parse` method **is used to convert a JSON string into the corresponding JSON value**.

```js
JSON.parse('{}') // {}
JSON.parse('true') // true
JSON.parse('"foo"') // "foo"
JSON.parse('[1, 5, "false"]') // [1, 5, "false"]
JSON.parse('null') // null

var o = JSON.parse('{"name": "Zhang San"}');
o.name // Zhang San
```

If the string passed in is not valid JSON, the `JSON.parse` method throws an error.

```js
JSON.parse("'String'") // illegal single quotes
// SyntaxError: Unexpected token ILLEGAL
```

In the code above, the double-quoted string contains a single-quoted string; because a single-quoted string does not conform to the JSON format, an error is thrown.

To **handle parsing errors**, you can place the `JSON.parse` method inside a `try...catch` block.

```js
try {
  JSON.parse("'String'");
} catch(e) {
  console.log('parsing error');
}
```

The `JSON.parse` method **can accept a processing function as a second argument, used similarly to the `JSON.stringify` method**.

```js
function f(key, value) {// arguments: the key and the value
  if (key === 'a') {
    return value + 10;
  }
  return value;
}

JSON.parse('{"a": 1, "b": 2}', f)
// {a: 11, b: 2}
```

In the code above, the second argument of `JSON.parse` is a function; if the key is `a`, the function adds 10 to the value.



## Documentation

Study documentation: <https://wangdoc.com/javascript/>
