---
title: Object-Oriented Programming
date: 2020-01-12 11:49:16
permalink: /pages/659b5af5e2e704e0
categories:
  - JavaScript Tutorial Notes
tags:
  - JavaScript
author:
  name: xugaoyi
  link: https://github.com/xugaoyi
---


# Object-Oriented Programming

## I. Instance Objects and the new Command

### 1. What is an Object

Object-Oriented Programming (OOP) is currently the mainstream programming paradigm. It abstracts the complex relationships of the real world into individual objects, and then simulates the real world through the division of labor and cooperation between objects.

Each object is a **functional center** with a clear division of responsibilities, capable of completing tasks such as **receiving information, processing data, and sending information**. Objects **can be reused**, and through inheritance mechanisms, they **can be customized**. Therefore, object-oriented programming has the characteristics of **flexibility, code reusability, and high modularity**, making it easy to maintain and develop. Compared with traditional **procedural programming** consisting of a series of functions or instructions, it is more suitable for **large-scale software projects** involving team collaboration.

So, what exactly is an “object”? Let's understand it from two perspectives.

**(1) An object is an abstraction of a single entity.**

A book, a car, or a person can all be objects; a database, a web page, or a connection to a remote server can also be objects. When **entities are abstracted into objects, the relationships between entities become relationships between objects, thus allowing us to simulate real-world situations and program against objects.**



**(2) An object is a container that encapsulates properties and methods.**

**Properties** represent the state of an object, and **methods** represent the behavior of an object (completing certain tasks). For example, we can abstract an animal into an `animal` object, using “properties” to record what kind of animal it is, and using “methods” to represent the animal's behaviors (running, hunting, resting, etc.).



```js
var person = { // object
    name: 'Zhang San', // property
    interest: function(){ // method (behavior)
        return this.name + ' is drinking'
    }
}
person.interest() // Zhang San is drinking

// Real world: There is a person named Zhang San, who is drinking.
// Object simulation: A person is abstracted into an object person. The object is a container that encapsulates the property name as Zhang San, and his drinking is encapsulated as the method interest

```

### 2. Constructor Functions

The first step in object-oriented programming is to create objects. As mentioned earlier, an object is an abstraction of a single entity. A template is usually needed to represent the common characteristics of a class of entities, and then objects are generated based on this template.

Typical object-oriented programming languages (such as C++ and Java) have the concept of “classes.” A “class” is a template for objects, and an object is an instance of a “class.” However, JavaScript's object system is not based on “classes,” but rather **based on constructor functions and prototype chains**.



JavaScript **uses constructor functions as templates for objects**.

**A “constructor function” is a function specifically designed to create instance objects**.

It serves as the template for objects, describing the basic structure of instance objects.

A single constructor function can generate multiple instance objects, all sharing the same structure.



A constructor function is just an ordinary function, but with its own characteristics and usage.

```js
var Vehicle = function () {
  this.price = 1000;
};
```

In the code above, `Vehicle` is a constructor function. To distinguish it from ordinary functions, the first letter of a constructor function's name is usually capitalized.

Constructor functions have two characteristics:

- The `this` keyword is used inside the function body, representing the instance object to be created.
- The `new` command must be used when creating objects.

Let's first introduce the `new` command.



### 3. The new Command

#### Basic Usage

The purpose of the `new` command is to **execute a constructor function and return an instance object**.

```js
var Vehicle = function () {
  this.price = 1000; // this points to the instance object v
};

var v = new Vehicle();  // new executes a constructor function and returns an instance object to v
v.price // 1000
```

The code above uses the `new` command to have the constructor function `Vehicle` create an instance object, saved in the variable `v`. This newly created instance object gets the `price` property from the constructor function `Vehicle`. When the `new` command is executed, `this` inside the constructor function represents the newly created instance object, and `this.price` means the instance object has a `price` property with a value of 1000.

When using the `new` command, **the constructor function can also accept parameters** as needed.

```js
var Vehicle = function (p) {
  this.price = p;
};

var v = new Vehicle(500); // The constructor function can accept parameters when using the new command
```

The `new` command itself can execute the constructor function, so the constructor function after it can have parentheses or **can omit parentheses**. The two lines of code below are equivalent, but to indicate that this is a function call, **using parentheses is recommended**.

```js
// Recommended style
var v = new Vehicle();
// Not recommended style
var v = new Vehicle;
```

A natural question is: what happens if you forget to use the `new` command and call the constructor function directly?

In this case, the constructor function becomes an ordinary function and will not generate an instance object. Moreover, for reasons that will be explained later, `this` at this point represents the global object, which will cause some unexpected results.

```js
var Vehicle = function (){
  this.price = 1000;
};

var v = Vehicle(); // forgetting the new command turns the constructor into an ordinary function, no instance is generated, and this inside the function points to window
v // undefined   the function is an ordinary function with no return value, so v is undefined
price // 1000  this inside the function points to window, so price becomes a global property, equivalent to window.price
```

In the code above, the `new` command was forgotten when calling the `Vehicle` constructor function. As a result, the variable `v` became `undefined`, and the `price` property became a global variable. Therefore, you should be very careful to avoid calling a constructor function directly without the `new` command.

To ensure that a constructor function must be used together with the `new` command, one solution is to **use strict mode inside the constructor function**, i.e., add `use strict` on the first line. This way, once you forget to use the `new` command, calling the constructor function directly will throw an error.

```js
function Fubar(foo, bar){
  'use strict';
  this._foo = foo; // in strict mode this cannot point to the window object; without new, this equals undefined, and adding a property to undefined throws an error
  this._bar = bar;
}

Fubar()
// TypeError: Cannot set property '_foo' of undefined
```

In the code above, `Fubar` is a constructor function, and the `use strict` command ensures that the function runs in strict mode. Because **in strict mode, `this` inside a function cannot point to the global object** and defaults to `undefined`, calling it without `new` will throw an error (JavaScript does not allow adding properties to `undefined`).

**Another solution** is to check inside the constructor function whether the `new` command was used; if it finds that it was not, it directly returns an instance object.

```js
function Fubar(foo, bar) {
  // the instanceof operator is used to detect whether a constructor function's prototype property appears on an instance object's prototype chain, returning a boolean.
  // syntax: <instance object> instanceof <constructor function>
  if (!(this instanceof Fubar)) {  // or use (!new.target) to determine whether the new command was used
    return new Fubar(foo, bar);
  }

  this._foo = foo;
  this._bar = bar;
}

Fubar(1, 2)._foo // 1
(new Fubar(1, 2))._foo // 1
```

The constructor function in the code above produces the same result whether or not the `new` command is added.



#### How the new Command Works

When using the `new` command, the function following it executes the steps below in order.

1. Create an empty object to serve as the instance object that will be returned.

2. Point the prototype of this empty object to the constructor function's `prototype` property.

3. Assign this empty object to the `this` keyword inside the function.

4. Begin executing the code inside the constructor function. (In the code, `this` points to the empty object (the instance object).)

5. Return the instance object (or a custom object).



In other words, inside a constructor function, `this` refers to a newly generated empty object, and **all operations on `this` happen on this empty object**. The reason a constructor function is called a “constructor function” is that the purpose of the function is to operate on an empty object (i.e., the `this` object) and “construct” it into the desired shape.

If there is a `return` statement inside the constructor function followed by an object, the `new` command returns the object specified by the `return` statement; otherwise, it ignores the `return` statement and returns the `this` object.

```js
var Vehicle = function () {
  this.price = 1000;
  return 1000; // 1000 is not an object, so it is ignored, and the this object is returned; if it were return {}, then {} would be returned

};

(new Vehicle()) === 1000
// false
```

In the code above, the `return` statement of the constructor function `Vehicle` returns a number. In this case, the `new` command ignores the `return` statement and returns the “constructed” `this` object.

However, if the `return` statement returns a new object unrelated to `this`, the `new` command returns this new object instead of the `this` object. This point deserves special attention.

```js
var Vehicle = function (){
  this.price = 1000;
  return { price: 2000 }; // an object is returned, so it gets returned out.
};

(new Vehicle()).price
// 2000
```

In the code above, the `return` statement of the constructor function `Vehicle` returns a new object. The `new` command returns this object instead of the `this` object.

On the other hand, if you use the `new` command on an ordinary function (a function without the `this` keyword inside), an empty object is returned.

```js
function getMessage() { // no this keyword inside, so an empty object is returned
  return 'this is a message';
}

var msg = new getMessage();

msg // {}
typeof msg // "object"
```

In the code above, `getMessage` is an ordinary function that returns a string. Using the `new` command on it produces an empty object. This is because **the `new` command always returns an object, either the instance object or the object specified by the `return` statement**. In this example, the `return` statement returns a string, so the `new` command ignores it.

The simplified internal flow of the `new` command can be represented by the code below.

```js
// constructor function
function Person(name,age){
    this.name = name
    this.age = age
}

// custom _new
function _new() {
  // convert the arguments object into an array
  var args = [].slice.call(arguments);
  // take out the constructor function
  var constructor = args.shift();
  // create an empty object that inherits the constructor function's prototype property
  var context = Object.create(constructor.prototype);
  // execute the constructor function
  var result = constructor.apply(context, args);
  // if the returned result is an object, return it directly; otherwise return the context object
  return (typeof result === 'object' && result != null) ? result : context;
}

// custom _new2
function _new2(/* constructor function */ constructor, /* constructor arguments */ params) {
  // create an empty object that inherits the constructor function's prototype property
  var context = Object.create(constructor.prototype);
  // execute the constructor function
  var result = constructor.apply(context, params);
  // if the returned result is an object, return it directly; otherwise return the context object
  return (typeof result === 'object' && result != null) ? result : context;
  // (if the user customizes a returned object inside the constructor function, use that object; otherwise return context)
}


// return an instance via the custom _new
var actor = _new(Person, 'Zhang San', 28);
actor.name // Zhang San

// return an instance via the custom _new2
var actor2 = _new2(Person, ['Li Si', 29]);
actor2.name // Li Si

// return an instance via the new command
var actor3 = new Person('Wang Wu',30)
actor3.name // Wang Wu

```



#### The new.target Property

Inside a constructor function you can use the `new.target` property. If the current function is called via the `new` command, `new.target` **points to the current function**; otherwise it is `undefined`.

```js
function f() {
  console.log(new.target === f);
}

f() // false
new f() // true
```

Using this property, you can **determine whether the `new` command was used when the function was called**.

```js
function f() {
  if (!new.target) {
    throw new Error('Please call with the new command!');
  }
  // ...
}

f() // Uncaught Error: Please call with the new command!
```

In the code above, when the constructor function `f` is called without the `new` command, it throws an error.



### 4. Creating Instance Objects with Object.create()

A constructor function serves as a template that can generate instance objects. But sometimes you cannot get the constructor function, only an existing object. We want to use this existing object as a template to generate a new instance object, and in this case we can use the `Object.create()` method.

```js
// this example has no constructor function, only an object

var person1 = { // this object is used to generate the instance object; it is treated as a template
  name: 'Zhang San',
  age: 38,
  greeting: function() {
    console.log('Hi! I\'m ' + this.name + '.');
  }
};

var person2 = Object.create(person1);

person2.name // Zhang San
person2.greeting() // Hi! I'm Zhang San.
```

In the code above, the object `person1` is the template for `person2`, and the latter inherits the properties and methods of the former.

For a detailed introduction to `Object.create()`, see the relevant section later.









## II. The this Keyword

### 1. Meaning

The `this` keyword is a very important syntactic point. It is no exaggeration to say that without understanding its meaning, most development tasks cannot be completed.

As mentioned in the previous chapter, `this` can be used inside a constructor function to represent the instance object. Besides that, `this` can also be used in other situations. But no matter what the situation is, `this` has one thing in common: **it always returns an object**.

Simply put, **`this` is the object that a property or method “currently” belongs to**.

```js
this.property // this represents the object that the property currently belongs to
```

In the code above, `this` represents the object that the `property` property currently belongs to.

Below is a real example.

```js
var person = {
  name: 'Zhang San',
  describe: function () {
    return 'Name: '+ this.name;
  }
};

person.describe()
// "Name: Zhang San"
```

In the code above, `this.name` refers to the object that the `name` property belongs to. Since `this.name` is called within the `describe` method, and the current object that the `describe` method belongs to is `person`, `this` points to `person`, and `this.name` is `person.name`.

Since an object's property can be assigned to another object, the current object that a property belongs to is variable, that is, **the reference of `this` is variable**.

```js
var A = {
  name: 'Zhang San',
  describe: function () {
    return 'Name: '+ this.name;
  }
};

var B = {
  name: 'Li Si'
};

B.describe = A.describe;

/* The value of B at this point:
B={
	name: 'Li Si',
    describe: function () {
        return 'Name: '+ this.name;
    }
}
*/

B.describe() // this inside B points to the B object
// "Name: Li Si"
```

In the code above, the `A.describe` property is assigned to `B`, so `B.describe` means the current object that the `describe` method belongs to is `B`, so `this.name` points to `B.name`.

Refactoring this example slightly makes the dynamic reference of `this` clearer.

```JS
function f() {
  return 'Name: '+ this.name;
}

var A = {
  name: 'Zhang San',
  describe: f
};

var B = {
  name: 'Li Si',
  describe: f
};

A.describe() // "Name: Zhang San"
B.describe() // "Name: Li Si"
```

In the code above, the function `f` uses the `this` keyword internally, and as the object that `f` belongs to changes, the reference of `this` changes accordingly.

As long as a function is assigned to another variable, the reference of `this` will change.

```js
var A = {
  name: 'Zhang San',
  describe: function () {
    return 'Name: '+ this.name;
  }
};

var name = 'Li Si';
var f = A.describe;
f() // "Name: Li Si" both this in function f and the name variable belong to the window top-level object
```

In the code above, `A.describe` is assigned to the variable `f`, and the internal `this` will point to the object that `f` belongs to at runtime (in this example, the top-level object).

Let's look at another example from web programming.

```js
<input type="text" name="age" size=3 onChange="validate(this, 18, 99);">

<script>
function validate(obj, lowval, hival){
  if ((obj.value < lowval) || (obj.value > hival))
    console.log('Invalid Value!');
}
</script>
```

The code above is a text input box. Whenever the user enters a value, the `onChange` callback function is called to validate whether the value is within the specified range. The browser passes the current object to the callback function, so `this` represents the passed-in current object (i.e., the text box), and then you can read the value entered by the user from `this.value`.

To summarize, **in the JavaScript language, everything is an object, and the runtime environment is also an object, so functions always run within some object, and `this` is the object (environment) that the function belongs to at runtime**. This by itself would not confuse users, but JavaScript supports dynamic switching of the runtime environment. That is, the reference of `this` is dynamic, and there is no way to determine in advance exactly which object it points to — and this is what confuses beginners the most.



### 2. Essence

The reason the JavaScript language has the design of `this` is related to the data structures in memory.

```js
var obj = { foo:  5 };
```

The code above assigns an object to the variable `obj`. The JavaScript engine first generates an object `{ foo: 5 }` in memory, and then assigns the memory address of this object to the variable `obj`. In other words, the variable `obj` is an address (reference). Later, if you want to read `obj.foo`, the engine first gets the memory address from `obj`, then reads the original object from that address and returns its `foo` property.

The original object is stored as a dictionary structure, where each property name corresponds to a property descriptor object. For example, the `foo` property in the example above is actually stored in the following form.

```js
{
  foo: {
    [[value]]: 5
    [[writable]]: true
    [[enumerable]]: true
    [[configurable]]: true
  }
}
```

Note that the value of the `foo` property is stored in the `value` property of the property descriptor object.

This structure is very clear; the problem is that the value of a property may be a function.

```js
var obj = { foo: function () {} };
```

In this case, **the engine stores the function separately in memory**, and then assigns the function's address to the `value` property of the `foo` property.

```js
{
  foo: {
    [[value]]: the function's address
    ...
  }
}
```

Since the function is a separate value, it can be executed in different environments (contexts).

```js
var f = function () {};
var obj = { f: f };

// executed standalone
f()

// executed in the obj environment
obj.f()
```

JavaScript allows referencing other variables of the current environment inside the function body.

```js
var f = function () {
  console.log(x);
};
```

In the code above, the variable `x` is used inside the function body. This variable is provided by the runtime environment.

Now the problem arises: since a function can be executed in different runtime environments, there needs to be a mechanism that can obtain the current runtime environment (context) inside the function body. So `this` came into being. **Its design purpose is to refer, inside the function body, to the function's current runtime environment**.

```js
var f = function () {
  console.log(this.x);
}
```

In the code above, `this.x` inside the function body refers to the `x` of the current runtime environment.

```js
var f = function () {
  console.log(this.x);
}

var x = 1;
var obj = {
  f: f,
  x: 2,
};

// executed standalone
f() // 1  the current runtime environment of method f is the window object

// executed in the obj environment
obj.f() // 2 the current runtime environment of method f is the obj object
```

In the code above, when the function `f` executes in the global environment, `this.x` points to the `x` of the global environment; when executed in the `obj` environment, `this.x` points to `obj.x`.

### 3. Usage Cases

`this` is mainly used in the following situations.

#### (1) Global Environment

When `this` is used in the global environment, it refers to the top-level object `window`.

```js
this === window // true

function f() {
  console.log(this === window);
}
f() // true
```

The code above shows that, whether or not it is inside a function, as long as it runs in the global environment, `this` refers to the top-level object `window`.

#### (2) Constructor Functions

`this` in a constructor function refers to the instance object.

```js
var Obj = function (p) {
  this.p = p; // this points to the instance object, defining the property p equal to the value p on the instance object
};
var o = new Obj('Hello World!'); // declare the instance object o via new constructor function
o.p // "Hello World!"
```

The code above defines a constructor function `Obj`. Since `this` points to the instance object, defining `this.p` inside the constructor function is equivalent to defining a `p` property on the instance object.



#### (3) Methods of an Object

If a method of an object contains `this`, the reference of `this` is the object that the method belongs to at runtime. Assigning the method to another object changes the reference of `this`.

However, this rule is not easy to grasp. Look at the code below.

```js
var obj ={
  foo: function () {
    console.log(this);
  }
};

obj.foo() // obj
```

In the code above, when the `obj.foo` method executes, its internal `this` points to `obj`.

However, the following several usages all change the reference of `this`.

```js
// case one
(obj.foo = obj.foo)() // window
// case two
(false || obj.foo)() // window
// case three
(1, obj.foo)() // window

// obj.foo is a memory address; it directly extracts function () {console.log(this);}, so you can think of obj.foo as function () {console.log(this);}
```

In the code above, `obj.foo` is a value. When this value is actually called, the runtime environment is no longer `obj` but the global environment, so `this` no longer points to `obj`.

You can understand it this way: inside the JavaScript engine, **`obj` and `obj.foo` are stored at two memory addresses**, called address one and address two. When called as `obj.foo()`, address two is called from address one, so the runtime environment of address two is address one, and `this` points to `obj`. However, **in the three cases above, address two is directly extracted and called, in which case the runtime environment is the global environment, so `this` points to the global environment**. The three cases above are equivalent to the code below.

```js
// obj.foo is a memory address; it directly extracts function () {console.log(this);}, so you can think of obj.foo as function () {console.log(this);}

// case one
(obj.foo = function () {
  console.log(this);
})()
// equivalent to
(function () {
  console.log(this);
})()

// case two
(false || function () {
  console.log(this);
})()

// case three
(1, function () {
  console.log(this);
})()
```

If the method that `this` belongs to is not at the first level of the object, then `this` only points to the object at the current level and will not inherit from a higher level.

```js
var a = {
  p: 'Hello',
  b: {
    m: function() {
      console.log(this.p);
    }
  }
};

a.b.m() // undefined
```

In the code above, the `a.b.m` method is at the second level of the `a` object, and the `this` inside this method does not point to `a` but to `a.b`, because what actually executes is the code below.

```js
var b = {
  m: function() {
   console.log(this.p);
  }
};

var a = {
  p: 'Hello',
  b: b
};

(a.b).m() // equivalent to b.m()
```

To achieve the expected effect, you can only write it as below.

```js
var a = {
  b: {
    m: function() {
      console.log(this.p);
    },
    p: 'Hello'
  }
};
```

If at this point you assign the method inside the nested object to a variable, `this` will still point to the global object.

```js
var a = {
  b: {
    m: function() {
      console.log(this.p);
    },
    p: 'Hello'
  }
};

var hello = a.b.m; // assigns the method's memory address to hello
hello() // undefined  internal this points to window
```

In the code above, `m` is a method inside a multi-level object. For simplicity, it is assigned to the `hello` variable, and as a result, when called, `this` points to the top-level object. To avoid this problem, you can assign only the object that `m` belongs to to `hello`, so that the reference of `this` does not change when called.

```js
var hello = a.b;
hello.m() // Hello   the reference of this does not change
```

### 4. Points to Note When Using

#### (1) Avoid Multi-Level this

Since the reference of `this` is uncertain, never include multiple levels of `this` in a function.

```js
var o = {
  f1: function () {
    console.log(this); // this points to the o object
    var f2 = function () { // the method starts a new memory address
      console.log(this); // this points to the window object
    }();
  }
}

o.f1()
// Object
// Window
```

The code above contains two levels of `this`. After running, the first level points to the object `o`, and the second level points to the global object, because what actually executes is the code below.

```js
var temp = function () {
  console.log(this);
};

var o = {
  f1: function () {
    console.log(this);
    var f2 = temp();
  }
}
```

One solution is to use, at the second level, a variable that points to the outer `this`.

```js
var o = {
  f1: function() {
    console.log(this);
    var that = this; // use a variable to save this
    var f2 = function() {
      console.log(that);
    }();
  }
}

o.f1()
// Object
// Object
```

The code above defines the variable `that`, which is fixed to point to the outer `this`, and then uses `that` in the inner level, so the reference of `this` will not change.

In fact, using a variable to fix the value of `this` and then having the inner function call this variable is a very common practice — be sure to master it.

JavaScript provides strict mode, which can also forcibly avoid this problem. In strict mode, if the `this` inside a function points to the top-level object, it will throw an error.

```js
var counter = {
  count: 0
};
counter.inc = function () {
  'use strict';
  this.count++
};
var f = counter.inc; // here the method's memory address is directly extracted and assigned to f, and the runtime environment is window
f()
// TypeError: Cannot read property 'count' of undefined
```

In the code above, the `inc` method declares strict mode via `'use strict'`, and at this point, once the internal `this` points to the top-level object, it throws an error.

#### (2) Avoid this in Array Processing Methods

The `map` and `forEach` methods of arrays allow you to provide a function as an argument. You should not use `this` inside this function.

```js
var o = {
  v: 'hello',
  p: [ 'a1', 'a2' ],
  f: function f() {
    this.p.forEach(function (item) { // the runtime environment of this method is window
      console.log(this.v + ' ' + item);
    });
  }
}

o.f()
// undefined a1
// undefined a2
```

In the code above, the `this` in the callback function of the `forEach` method actually points to the `window` object, so the value of `o.v` cannot be obtained. The reason is the same as the multi-level `this` in the previous paragraph: the inner `this` does not point to the outside but to the top-level object.

One way to solve this problem is, as mentioned earlier, to use an intermediate variable to fix `this`.

```js
var o = {
  v: 'hello',
  p: [ 'a1', 'a2' ],
  f: function f() {
    var that = this;
    this.p.forEach(function (item) {
      console.log(that.v+' '+item);
    });
  }
}

o.f()
// hello a1
// hello a2
```

Another way is to pass `this` as the second argument of the `forEach` method to fix its runtime environment.

```js
var o = {
  v: 'hello',
  p: [ 'a1', 'a2' ],
  f: function f() {
    this.p.forEach(function (item) {
      console.log(this.v + ' ' + item);
    }, this);
  }
}

o.f()
// hello a1
// hello a2
```

ES6 arrow function

```js
var o = {
  v: 'hello',
  p: [ 'a1', 'a2' ],
  f: function f() {
    this.p.forEach((item) => { // arrow functions make this point to the o object
      console.log(this.v+' '+item);
    });
  }
}

o.f()
// hello a1
// hello a2
```



#### (3) Avoid this in Callback Functions

The `this` in callback functions often changes its reference, so it is best to avoid using it.

```js
var o = new Object();
o.f = function () {
  console.log(this === o);
}

// jQuery style
$('#button').on('click', o.f);
```

In the code above, after clicking the button, the console displays `false`. The reason is that at this point `this` no longer points to the `o` object but to the button's DOM object, because the `f` method is called in the environment of the button object. This subtle difference is easily overlooked in programming, leading to hard-to-detect errors.

To solve this problem, you can use some of the following methods to bind `this`, that is, to make `this` always point to a certain object, reducing uncertainty.

### 5. Methods for Binding this

The dynamic switching of `this` certainly creates great flexibility for JavaScript, but it also makes programming difficult and ambiguous. Sometimes you need to fix `this` to avoid unexpected situations. JavaScript provides three methods — `call`, `apply`, and `bind` — to switch/fix the reference of `this`.

#### Function.prototype.call()

The `call` method of a function instance can **specify the reference of `this` inside the function (i.e., the scope in which the function executes), and then call the function in the specified scope.**

```js
var obj = {};

var f = function () {
  return this;
};

f() === window // true
f.call(obj) === obj // true makes this inside the function point to obj, equivalent to placing the function inside the obj object and running it.
```

In the code above, when the function `f` runs in the global environment, `this` points to the global environment (the `window` object in browsers); the `call` method can change the reference of `this`, specifying that `this` points to the object `obj`, and then runs the function `f` within the scope of the object `obj`.

**The argument of the `call` method should be an object**. If the argument is empty, `null`, or `undefined`, **the global object is passed in by default**.

```js
var n = 123;
var obj = { n: 456 };

function a() {
  console.log(this.n);
}

// when the argument is empty, null, or undefined, the global object is passed in by default
a.call() // 123
a.call(null) // 123
a.call(undefined) // 123

a.call(window) // 123

a.call(obj) // 456
```

In the code above, if the `this` keyword in function `a` points to the global object, the result returned is `123`. If you use the `call` method to make the `this` keyword point to the `obj` object, the result returned is `456`. As you can see, if the `call` method has no argument, or the argument is `null` or `undefined`, it is equivalent to pointing to the global object.

If the argument of the `call` method is a primitive value, then this **primitive value is automatically converted into the corresponding wrapper object** and then passed into the `call` method.

```js
var f = function () {
  return this;
};

f.call(5)
// Number {[[PrimitiveValue]]: 5} // an instance object of Number
```

In the code above, the argument of `call` is `5`, which is not an object, so it is automatically converted into a wrapper object (an instance of `Number`) and bound to the `this` inside `f`.

The `call` method can also accept multiple arguments.

##### Syntax

```js
func.call(thisValue, arg1, arg2, ...)
// the first argument thisValue is the object that this inside the function will point to
// the remaining arguments are the arguments passed into the function
```

The first argument of `call` is the object that `this` will point to, and the following arguments are the arguments needed when the function is called.

```js
function add(a, b) {
  return a + b;
}

add.call(this, 1, 2) // 3
```

In the code above, the `call` method specifies that the `this` inside function `add` is bound to the current environment (object), with arguments `1` and `2`, so the function `add` returns `3` after running.

##### Application: Calling an Object's Native Methods

One application of the `call` method is to call an object's native methods.

```JS
var obj = {};
obj.hasOwnProperty('toString') // false checks whether obj has a toString property; note this is not the toString() method

// override the inherited hasOwnProperty method
obj.hasOwnProperty = function () {
  return true;
};
obj.hasOwnProperty('toString') // true

Object.prototype.hasOwnProperty.call(obj, 'toString') // false
```

In the code above, `hasOwnProperty` is a method inherited by the `obj` object, and once this method is overridden, you will not get the correct result. The `call` method can solve this problem: it places the original definition of the `hasOwnProperty` method onto the `obj` object for execution, so that whether or not `obj` has a method with the same name does not affect the result.

```js
var objArr = { // array-like object
    0:'a',
    1:'b',
    2:'c',
    length:3
}

var arr = Array.prototype.slice.call(objArr) // execute the array's slice method, specifying obj as the method's this
// or arr = [].slice.call(obj)

arr // ['a','b','c']
```

In the code above, `objArr` is an array-like object. Using `call` to invoke the array's `slice` method, specifying `objArr` as the `this` inside the `slice` method, the return value of the `slice` method is assigned to `arr`.

Let's also look at the internal implementation principle of the array `slice` method.

```js
Array.prototype.slice=function(start,end){  // the underlying internal implementation of the array method slice
    var result = new Array(); // new array
    var start = start || 0;
    var end = end || this.length; // this points to the object that calls it; after using call, the reference of this is changed to point to the object passed in
    for(var i=start; i<end; i++){
        result.push(this[i]);
    }
    return result;	// what is returned is a new array
}
```

#### Function.prototype.apply()

The `apply` method works similarly to the `call` method: it also changes the reference of `this` and then calls the function. The only difference is that it accepts an array as the arguments for the function execution, in the following format.

##### Syntax

```js
func.apply(thisValue, [arg1, arg2, ...])
// the first argument thisValue is the object that this inside the function will point to
// the second argument is an array, where each item is an argument passed into the function
```

The first argument of the `apply` method is also the object that `this` will point to; if set to `null` or `undefined`, it is equivalent to specifying the global object. The second argument is an array, and all members of this array are passed in turn as arguments to the original function. The arguments of the original function must be added one by one in the `call` method, but in the `apply` method, they must be added in array form.

```js
function f(x, y){
  console.log(x + y);
}

f.call(null, 1, 1) // 2
f.apply(null, [1, 1]) // 2
```

In the code above, the function `f` originally accepts two arguments; after using the `apply` method, it can accept an array as its argument.

Taking advantage of this, you can build some interesting applications.

##### Applications:

##### (1) Getting the Maximum/Minimum Element of an Array

JavaScript does not provide a function to find the maximum element of an array. Combining the `apply` method with the `Math.max`/`Math.min` methods, you can return the maximum/minimum element of an array.

**Taking advantage of the fact that the second argument is an array**

```js
// get the maximum value
var a = [10, 2, 4, 15, 9];
Math.max.apply(null, a) // 15

//Math.max method gets the maximum value
//Math.max(10, 2, 4, 15, 9) // 15

// get the minimum value
var a = [10, 2, 4, 15, 9];
Math.min.apply(null, a) // 15    null is equivalent to binding the global object
```

##### (2) Turning Empty Elements of an Array into `undefined`

Using the `apply` method, you can use the `Array` constructor function to turn the empty elements of an array into `undefined`.

```js
Array.apply(null, ['a', ,'b'])
// [ 'a', undefined, 'b' ]
```

The difference between an empty element and `undefined` is that the array's `forEach` method skips empty elements but does not skip `undefined`. Therefore, when iterating over the internal elements, you get different results.

```js
var a = ['a', , 'b'];

function print(i) {
  console.log(i);
}

a.forEach(print)
// a
// b

Array.apply(null, a).forEach(print)
// a
// undefined
// b
```

##### (3) Converting Array-Like Objects

In addition, using the array object's `slice` method, you can convert an array-like object (such as the `arguments` object) into a real array.

This has the same effect as using the `call` method.

```js
Array.prototype.slice.apply({0: 1, length: 1}) // [1]
Array.prototype.slice.apply({0: 1}) // []
Array.prototype.slice.apply({0: 1, length: 2}) // [1, undefined]
Array.prototype.slice.apply({length: 1}) // [undefined]
```

In the code above, the arguments of the `apply` method are all objects, but the returned results are all arrays, which achieves the purpose of converting objects into arrays. As you can see from the code above, the prerequisite for this method to work is that the object being processed must have a `length` property and corresponding numeric keys.

##### (4) Binding the Object of a Callback Function

The earlier button click event example can be rewritten as follows.

```js
var o = new Object();

o.f = function () {
  console.log(this === o);// true, if the reference of this is not changed, this will point to the DOM object
}

var f = function (){
  o.f.apply(o);
  // or o.f.call(o);
};

// jQuery style
$('#button').on('click', f);
```

In the code above, after clicking the button, the console will display `true`. Since the `apply` method (or the `call` method) not only binds the object that the function belongs to at execution but also executes the function immediately, the binding statement has to be written inside a function body. A more concise way is to use the `bind` method introduced below.

#### Function.prototype.bind()

The `bind` method is used to bind the `this` inside a function body to a certain object, and then **returns a new function. The bind method does not execute a function immediately.**

##### Syntax

```js
func.bind(thisValue, arg1, arg2, ...)()
// the first argument thisValue is the object that this inside the function will point to
// the remaining arguments are the arguments passed into the function
// the bind method returns a new function and does not execute immediately; to execute it, add parentheses afterward
```



```js
var d = new Date();
d.getTime() // 1481869925657

var print = d.getTime;
print() // Uncaught TypeError: this is not a Date object.
```

In the code above, we assign the `d.getTime` method to the variable `print`, and then calling `print` throws an error. This is because the `this` inside the `getTime` method is bound to the instance of the `Date` object; after assigning it to the variable `print`, the internal `this` no longer points to the instance of the `Date` object.

The `bind` method can solve this problem.

```js
var print = d.getTime.bind(d);
print() // 1481869925657
```

In the code above, the `bind` method binds the `this` inside the `getTime` method to the `d` object, and now you can safely assign this method to other variables.

The argument of the `bind` method is the object that `this` is to be bound to. Below is a clearer example.

```js
var counter = {
  count: 0,
  inc: function () {
    this.count++;
  }
};

var func = counter.inc.bind(counter);
func();
counter.count // 1
```

In the code above, the `counter.inc` method is assigned to the variable `func`. At this point you must use the `bind` method to bind the `this` inside `inc` to `counter`, otherwise an error will occur.

Binding `this` to another object is also possible.

```js
var counter = {
  count: 0,
  inc: function () {
    this.count++;
  }
};

var obj = {
  count: 100
};
var func = counter.inc.bind(obj);
func();
obj.count // 101
```

In the code above, the `bind` method binds the `this` inside the `inc` method to the `obj` object. As a result, after calling the `func` function, what is incremented is the `count` property inside `obj`.

`bind` can also accept more arguments, binding these arguments to the arguments of the original function.

```js
var add = function (x, y) {
  return x * this.m + y * this.n;
}

var obj = {
  m: 2,
  n: 2
};

var newAdd = add.bind(obj, 5); // the second argument is x inside add
newAdd(5) // 20 the argument passed in is y inside add
```

In the code above, besides binding the `this` object, the `bind` method also binds the first argument `x` of the `add` function to `5`, and then returns a new function `newAdd`, which can run as long as it receives one more argument `y`.

If the first argument of the `bind` method is `null` or `undefined`, it is equivalent to binding `this` to the global object, and when the function runs, `this` points to the top-level object (`window` in browsers).

```js
function add(x, y) {
  return x + y;
}

var plus5 = add.bind(null, 5);
plus5(10) // 15  the argument passed in is y inside add
```

In the code above, the function `add` does not have `this` inside, and the main purpose of using the `bind` method is to bind the argument `x`. From then on, every time the new function `plus5` is run, you only need to provide the other argument `y`. And because there is no `this` inside `add`, the first argument of `bind` is `null`; however, if it were another object here, it would make no difference.

##### Points to Note About bind:

##### (1) Returns a New Function Each Time

The `bind` method **returns a new function each time it runs**, which can cause some problems. For example, when listening for events, you cannot write it as below.

```js
element.addEventListener('click', o.m.bind(o));
```

In the code above, the `click` event binds an anonymous function generated by the `bind` method. This makes it impossible to remove the binding, so the code below is ineffective.

```js
element.removeEventListener('click', o.m.bind(o));
```

The correct way is to write it as below:

```js
var listener = o.m.bind(o);
element.addEventListener('click', listener);
//  ...
element.removeEventListener('click', listener);
```

##### (2) Using It in Combination with Callback Functions

Callback functions are one of the most commonly used patterns in JavaScript, but a common mistake is to directly use a method containing `this` as a callback function. The solution is to use the `bind` method to bind `counter.inc` to `counter`.

```js
var counter = {
  count: 0,
  inc: function () {
    'use strict';
    this.count++;
  }
};

function callIt(callback) {
  callback();
}

callIt(counter.inc.bind(counter));
counter.count // 1
```

In the code above, the `callIt` method calls the callback function. At this point, if you directly pass in `counter.inc`, the `this` inside `counter.inc` will point to the global object when called. After using the `bind` method to bind `counter.inc` to `counter`, there is no longer this problem, and `this` always points to `counter`.

There is another situation that is more subtle: some array methods can accept a function as an argument. The reference of `this` inside these functions is also very likely to go wrong.

```js
var obj = {
  name: 'Zhang San',
  times: [1, 2, 3],
  print: function () {
    this.times.forEach(function (n) { // the this reference problem inside the array's forEach method
      console.log(this.name); // here this points to the global object
    });
  }
};

obj.print()
// no output at all
```

In the code above, the `this` of `this.times` inside `obj.print` points to `obj`, which is fine. However, the `this.name` inside the callback function of the `forEach` method points to the global object, making it impossible to get the value. A slight modification makes it clearer.

```js
obj.print = function () {
  this.times.forEach(function (n) {
    console.log(this === window);
  });
};

obj.print()
// true
// true
// true
```

To solve this problem, you also bind `this` via the `bind` method.

```js
obj.print = function () {
  this.times.forEach(function (n) {
    console.log(this.name);
  }.bind(this));// use bind to pass the obj object that this points to into the method
};

obj.print()
// Zhang San
// Zhang San
// Zhang San
```

##### (3) Using It in Combination with the `call` Method (Rewriting the Way Array Methods Are Called)

Using the `bind` method, you can **rewrite the usage form of some native JavaScript methods**, taking the array's `slice` method as an example.

```js
[1, 2, 3].slice(0, 1) // [1]
// equivalent to
Array.prototype.slice.call([1, 2, 3], 0, 1) // [1]
```

In the code above, the array's `slice` method splits out another array from `[1, 2, 3]` according to the specified position and length. The essence of this is calling the `Array.prototype.slice` method on `[1, 2, 3]`, so you can express this process with the `call` method to get the same result.

The `call` method essentially invokes the `Function.prototype.call` method, so the expression above can be **rewritten using the `bind` method**.

```js
var slice = Function.prototype.call.bind(Array.prototype.slice);
slice([1, 2, 3], 0, 1) // [1]
```

The meaning of the code above is to turn `Array.prototype.slice` into the object that the `Function.prototype.call` method belongs to, so that when called it becomes `Array.prototype.slice.call`. Similar writing can also be used for other array methods.

```js
var push = Function.prototype.call.bind(Array.prototype.push);
var pop = Function.prototype.call.bind(Array.prototype.pop);

var a = [1 ,2 ,3];
push(a, 4)
a // [1, 2, 3, 4]

pop(a)
a // [1, 2, 3]
```

Going a step further, if you bind the `Function.prototype.call` method to the `Function.prototype.bind` object, it means the call form of `bind` can also be rewritten.

```js
function f() {
  console.log(this.v);
}

var o = { v: 123 };
var bind = Function.prototype.call.bind(Function.prototype.bind);
bind(f, o)() // 123
```

The meaning of the code above is to bind the `Function.prototype.bind` method onto `Function.prototype.call`, so the `bind` method can be used directly, without needing to use it on a function instance.





#### Summary: The Difference Between call(), apply(), and bind()

All three methods change the reference of `this` inside a function.

Their differences are:

call() — the first argument is the object that `this` inside the function will point to, and the remaining arguments are the arguments passed into the function.

apply() — the first argument is the object that `this` inside the function will point to, and the second argument is an array, where each item is an argument passed into the function.

bind() — takes the same arguments as call(); the difference is that bind() returns a new function and does not execute immediately.



## III. Inheritance of Objects

A very important aspect of object-oriented programming is the inheritance of objects. **By having object A inherit object B, A directly gains all the properties and methods of object B. This is very useful for code reuse**.

Most object-oriented programming languages implement object inheritance through “classes” (class). Traditionally, inheritance in the JavaScript language is not implemented through class but through the “prototype object” (prototype). This chapter introduces JavaScript's prototype chain inheritance.

ES6 introduced the class syntax, and class-based inheritance is not covered in this tutorial. Please refer to the relevant chapters in the book *Introduction to the ES6 Standard*.

**ES5 implements inheritance through the “prototype object” (prototype).**

### 1. Overview of the Prototype Object

#### (1) Drawbacks of Constructor Functions

JavaScript generates new objects through constructor functions, so **a constructor function can be regarded as a template for objects**. The properties and methods of an instance object can be defined inside the constructor function.

```js
function Cat (name, color) {
  this.name = name;
  this.color = color;
}

var cat1 = new Cat('Damao', 'white');

cat1.name // 'Damao'
cat1.color // 'white'
```

In the code above, the `Cat` function is a constructor function. The `name` property and `color` property are defined inside the function, and all instance objects (in this example, `cat1`) will generate these two properties, i.e., these two properties are defined on the instance object.

Defining properties for instance objects through a constructor function is convenient, but it has a drawback. **Multiple instances of the same constructor function cannot share properties, thus causing a waste of system resources**.

```js
function Cat(name, color) {
  this.name = name;
  this.color = color;
  this.meow = function () {
    console.log('Meow meow');
  };
}

// the solution is to create the common method on the prototype object (prototype)
Cat.prototype.meow2 = function(){
    console.log('Meow meow');
}

var cat1 = new Cat('Damao', 'white');
var cat2 = new Cat('Ermao', 'black');

// cat1 and cat2 are two instance objects of the same constructor function; they cannot share the meow property, thus causing a waste of system resources.
cat1.meow === cat2.meow
// false

cat1.meow2 === cat2.meow2
// true
```

In the code above, `cat1` and `cat2` are two instances of the same constructor function, and they both have the `meow` method. Since the `meow` method is generated on each instance object, the two instances generate it twice. In other words, each time you create a new instance, a new `meow` method is created. This is both unnecessary and a waste of system resources, because all `meow` methods have the same behavior and should be completely shared.

**The solution to this problem is the JavaScript prototype object (prototype).**



#### (2) The Role of the prototype Property

**The design idea of JavaScript's inheritance mechanism is that all properties and methods of the prototype object can be shared by instance objects**. That is, if a property or method is defined on the prototype, then all instance objects can share it, which not only saves memory but also reflects the relationship between instance objects.

Below, let's first look at how to specify a prototype for an object. JavaScript stipulates that **every function has a `prototype` property pointing to an object**.

```js
function f() {}
typeof f.prototype // "object"
```

In the code above, the function `f` has the `prototype` property by default, pointing to an object.

**For ordinary functions, this property is basically useless**. However, **for constructor functions, when an instance is generated, this property automatically becomes the prototype of the instance object**.

```js
function Animal(name) {
  this.name = name;
}
// the Animal.prototype property is the prototype object of the instances cat1 and cat2; adding a property on it means the instances share that property
Animal.prototype.color = 'white';

var cat1 = new Animal('Damao');
var cat2 = new Animal('Ermao');

cat1.color // 'white'
cat2.color // 'white'
```

In the code above, the `prototype` property of the constructor function `Animal` is the prototype object of the instance objects `cat1` and `cat2`. Adding a `color` property to the prototype object results in the instance objects sharing this property.

The properties of the prototype object are not the instance object's own properties. As long as you modify the prototype object, the change is immediately reflected on **all** instance objects.

```js
Animal.prototype.color = 'yellow';


// the color property is not a property of the instance object cat1/cat2 itself; it is only that when the instance itself does not have this property or method, it goes to the prototype object to look for it
cat1.color // "yellow"
cat2.color // "yellow"
```

In the code above, the value of the `color` property of the prototype object becomes `yellow`, and the `color` property of the two instance objects immediately changes accordingly. This is because the instance objects actually do not have a `color` property; they both read the `color` property of the prototype object. In other words, **when an instance object itself does not have a certain property or method, it goes to the prototype object to look for that property or method.** This is the special feature of the prototype object.

If **an instance object itself has a certain property or method, it will not go to the prototype object to look for this property or method**.

```js
cat1.color = 'black';

cat1.color // 'black'
cat2.color // 'yellow'
Animal.prototype.color // 'yellow';
```

In the code above, the `color` property of the instance object `cat1` is changed to `black`, which makes it no longer read the `color` property from the prototype object, while the latter's value remains `yellow`.

To summarize, the **role** of the prototype object is **to define the properties and methods shared by all instance objects**. This is also the reason it is called the prototype object, and instance objects can be regarded as child objects derived from the prototype object.

```js
Animal.prototype.walk = function () {
  console.log(this.name + ' is walking');
};
```

In the code above, a `walk` method is defined on the `Animal.prototype` object, and this method can be called on all `Animal` instance objects.



#### (3) The Prototype Chain

**JavaScript stipulates that all objects have their own prototype object (prototype). On the one hand, any object can serve as the prototype of other objects; on the other hand, since the prototype object is also an object, it also has its own prototype. Therefore, a “prototype chain” (prototype chain) is formed: object to prototype, then to the prototype's prototype…**

If you trace upward level by level, the prototype of all objects **can ultimately be traced back to `Object.prototype`, i.e., the `prototype` property of the `Object` constructor function**. In other words, all objects inherit the properties of `Object.prototype`. This is the reason all objects have the `valueOf` and `toString` methods, because these are inherited from `Object.prototype`.

So, does the `Object.prototype` object have its prototype? The answer is that the prototype of `Object.prototype` is `null`. `null` has no properties or methods, nor its own prototype. Therefore, **the end of the prototype chain is `null`**.

```js
Object.getPrototypeOf(Object.prototype) // the Object.getPrototypeOf method returns the prototype of an object
// null
```

The code above shows that the prototype of the `Object.prototype` object is `null`; since `null` has no properties, the prototype chain ends here. The `Object.getPrototypeOf` method returns the prototype of the argument object; see later for a detailed introduction.

**When reading a certain property of an object, the JavaScript engine first looks for the object's own property; if not found, it goes to its prototype to look; if still not found, it goes to the prototype's prototype to look. If it still cannot be found all the way up to the topmost `Object.prototype`, it returns `undefined`**. If both the object itself and its prototype define a property with the same name, then the object's own property is read first, which is called “overriding”.

Note that going up level by level to look for a certain property across the entire prototype chain has an impact on performance. The higher up the prototype object that the property being looked for is, the greater the impact on performance. If you look for a property that does not exist, the entire prototype chain will be traversed.

For example, if you make a constructor function's `prototype` property point to an array, it means the instance objects can call array methods.

```js
var MyArray = function () {};

MyArray.prototype = new Array(); // the prototype of the constructor function MyArray points to an array instance
MyArray.prototype.constructor = MyArray;

var mine = new MyArray(); // mine is an instance of the constructor function MyArray
mine.push(1, 2, 3);
mine.length // 3
mine instanceof Array // true determines whether the instance object mine is an instance of the constructor function Array
```

In the code above, `mine` is an instance object of the constructor function `MyArray`. Since `MyArray.prototype` points to an array instance, `mine` can call array methods (these methods are defined on the `prototype` object of the array instance). The `instanceof` expression in the last line is used to compare whether an object is an instance of a certain constructor function, and the result proves that `mine` is an instance of `Array`. See later for a detailed explanation of the `instanceof` operator.

The code above also features the `constructor` property of the prototype object, whose meaning is explained in the next section.

#### (4) The constructor Property

**The `prototype` object has a `constructor` property, which by default points to the constructor function that the `prototype` object belongs to.**

```js
function P() {}
P.prototype.constructor === P // true
```

Since the `constructor` property is defined on the `prototype` object, it means it can be inherited by all instance objects.

```js
function P() {}
var p = new P();

p.constructor === P // true  p itself does not have a constructor property; it reads the one on the prototype
p.constructor === P.prototype.constructor // true
p.hasOwnProperty('constructor') // false
```

In the code above, `p` is an instance object of the constructor function `P`, but `p` itself does not have a `constructor` property; this property actually reads the `P.prototype.constructor` property on the prototype chain.

##### Role

The **role** of the `constructor` property is **to let you know which constructor function a certain instance object was produced by**.

```js
function F() {};
var f = new F();

f.constructor === F // true
f.constructor === RegExp // false
```

In the code above, the `constructor` property determines that the constructor function of the instance object `f` is `F`, not `RegExp`.

On the other hand, with the `constructor` property, you can create another instance from an instance object.

```js
function Constr() {}
var x = new Constr();

var y = new x.constructor();  // equivalent to new Constr()
y instanceof Constr // true
```

In the code above, `x` is an instance of the constructor function `Constr`, and you can indirectly call the constructor function from `x.constructor`. This makes it possible to call its own constructor function within an instance method.

```js
Constr.prototype.createCopy = function () {
  return new this.constructor();
};
```

In the code above, the `createCopy` method calls the constructor function to create another instance.

The `constructor` property **represents the association between the prototype object and the constructor function**. If you modify the prototype object, you generally modify the `constructor` property at the same time to prevent errors when referencing it.

```js
function Person(name) {
  this.name = name;
}

Person.prototype.constructor === Person // true

Person.prototype = { // modified the prototype object, but did not modify the constructor under the prototype
  method: function () {}
};

//  since the prototype object has been modified, the constructor under the prototype is also modified
Person.prototype.constructor === Person // false
Person.prototype.constructor === Object // true // the constructor of an ordinary object points to the Object constructor function
```

In the code above, the prototype object of the constructor function `Person` was changed, but the `constructor` property was not modified, causing this property to no longer point to `Person`. Since `Person`'s new prototype is an ordinary object, and an ordinary object's `constructor` property points to the `Object` constructor function, `Person.prototype.constructor` became `Object`.

So, when modifying the prototype object, you generally need to modify the reference of the `constructor` property at the same time.

```js
// bad practice
C.prototype = {
  method1: function (...) { ... },
  // ...
};

// good practice
C.prototype = {
  constructor: C,
  method1: function (...) { ... },
  // ...
};

// even better practice (just adding a method to the prototype object)
C.prototype.method1 = function (...) { ... };
```

In the code above, either point the `constructor` property back to the original constructor function, or only add methods to the prototype object; this ensures the `instanceof` operator will not be distorted.

If you cannot determine what function the `constructor` property is, there is another way: use the `name` property to get the name of the constructor function from the instance.

```js
function Foo() {}
var f = new Foo();
f.constructor.name // "Foo"
```

### 2. The instanceof Operator

The `instanceof` operator **determines whether an object is an instance of a certain constructor function, returning a boolean value**.

#### Syntax

```js
<instance object> instanceof <constructor function>
```



```
var v = new Vehicle();
v instanceof Vehicle // true   v is an instance of the constructor function Vehicle
```

In the code above, the object `v` is an instance of the constructor function `Vehicle`, so it returns `true`.

The left side of the `instanceof` operator is the instance object, and the right side is the constructor function. It **checks whether the prototype object (prototype) of the constructor function on the right is on the prototype chain of the object on the left**. Therefore, the following two ways of writing are equivalent.

```js
v instanceof Vehicle
// equivalent to
Vehicle.prototype.isPrototypeOf(v)
```

In the code above, see later for a detailed explanation of `Object.prototype.isPrototypeOf`.

Since `instanceof` checks the entire prototype chain, the same instance object may return `true` for multiple constructor functions.

```js
var d = new Date();
d instanceof Date // true
d instanceof Object // true
```

In the code above, `d` is an instance of both `Date` and `Object`, so it returns `true` for both constructor functions.

Since **any object (except `null`) is an instance of `Object`**, the `instanceof` operator can determine whether a value is a non-`null` object.

```js
var obj = { foo: 123 };
obj instanceof Object // true

null instanceof Object // false
```

In the code above, except for `null`, the result of `instanceOf Object` for other objects is all `true`.



The principle of `instanceof` is to check whether the `prototype` property of the constructor function on the right is on the prototype chain of the object on the left. There is a **special case** where the prototype chain of the object on the left has only the `null` object. In this case, the `instanceof` determination is distorted.

```js
var obj = Object.create(null);
typeof obj // "object"
Object.create(null) instanceof Object // false
```

In the code above, `Object.create(null)` returns a new object `obj` whose prototype is `null` (see later for a detailed introduction to `Object.create`). The `prototype` property of the constructor function `Object` on the right is not on the prototype chain on the left, so `instanceof` considers that `obj` is not an instance of `Object`. However, **as long as an object's prototype is not `null`, the determination of the `instanceof` operator will not be distorted**.

#### Uses

One use of the `instanceof` operator is to **determine the type of a value**.

```js
var x = [1, 2, 3];
var y = {};
var z = function (){};
x instanceof Array // true
y instanceof Object // true
y instanceof Function // true
```

In the code above, the `instanceof` operator determines that the variable `x` is an array, the variable `y` is an object, and the variable `z` is a function.

Note that the `instanceof` operator **can only be used on objects** and **does not apply to primitive type values**.

```js
var s = 'hello';
var z = 0;
s instanceof String // false
z instanceof Number // false
// primitive types are not instantiated, so they all return false
```

In the code above, a string is not an instance of the `String` object (because a string is not an object), so it returns `false`.

In addition, for `undefined` and `null`, the `instanceof` operator always returns `false`.

```js
undefined instanceof Object // false
null instanceof Object // false
```

Using the `instanceof` operator, you can also cleverly solve the problem of **forgetting to add the `new` command** when calling a constructor function.

```js
function Fubar (foo, bar) {
  if (this instanceof Fubar) { // when the new command is forgotten, this is the global object window
    this._foo = foo;
    this._bar = bar;
  } else {
    return new Fubar(foo, bar);
  }
}
Fubar(1, 2)._foo // 1
(new Fubar(1, 2))._foo // 1
```

The code above uses the `instanceof` operator to determine, inside the function body, whether the `this` keyword is an instance of the constructor function `Fubar`. If not, it indicates that the `new` command was forgotten.

### 3. Inheritance of Constructor Functions

**Having one constructor function inherit another constructor function** is a very common requirement.

This can be implemented in two steps. **The first step is to call the parent class's constructor function in the child class's constructor function**.

```js
function Sub(value) { // Sub is the child class constructor function
  Super.call(this); // Super is the parent class constructor function, and this here is the instance of the child class
  this.prop = value;
}
```

In the code above, `Sub` is the child class's constructor function, and `this` is the child class's instance. Calling the parent class's constructor function `Super` on the instance **gives the child class instance the properties of the parent class instance**.

**The second step is to make the child class's prototype point to the parent class's prototype, so that the child class can inherit the parent class's prototype.**

```js
// the child class's prototype points to a new object whose prototype points to the parent class's prototype, equivalent to the child class's prototype inheriting the parent class's prototype, and operations on the child class's prototype will not affect the parent class's prototype
Sub.prototype = Object.create(Super.prototype);
Sub.prototype.constructor = Sub;
Sub.prototype.method = '...';
```

In the code above, `Sub.prototype` is the child class's prototype, which should be assigned `Object.create(Super.prototype)` rather than directly equal to `Super.prototype`. Otherwise, the operations on `Sub.prototype` in the following two lines would also modify the parent class's prototype `Super.prototype`.



**Another way to write it** is to make `Sub.prototype` equal to a parent class instance.

```js
Sub.prototype = new Super();// this way of writing will inherit the parent class instance's methods, not recommended
```

The way of writing above also has the effect of inheritance, but the child class will have the parent class instance's methods. Sometimes this may not be what we need, so this way of writing is **not recommended**.

For example, below is a `Shape` constructor function.

```js
function Shape() {
  this.x = 0;
  this.y = 0;
}

Shape.prototype.move = function (x, y) {
  this.x += x;
  this.y += y;
  console.info('Shape moved.');
};
```

We need to make the `Rectangle` constructor function inherit `Shape`.

```js
// step one, the child class inherits the parent class's instance
function Rectangle() {
  Shape.call(this); // call the parent class constructor function
}
// another way of writing it
function Rectangle() {
  this.base = Shape;
  this.base();
}

// step two, the child class inherits the parent class's prototype
Rectangle.prototype = Object.create(Shape.prototype);
Rectangle.prototype.constructor = Rectangle;
```

After adopting this way of writing, the `instanceof` operator returns `true` for both the child class's and the parent class's constructor functions.

```js
var rect = new Rectangle();

rect instanceof Rectangle  // true
rect instanceof Shape  // true
```

In the code above, the child class inherits the parent class as a whole. Sometimes you only need **inheritance of a single method**, in which case you can adopt the following way of writing.

```js
ClassB.prototype.print = function() {// inheritance of a single method
  ClassA.prototype.print.call(this);// inherited the print method of ClassA
  // some code
}
```

In the code above, the `print` method of the child class `B` first calls the `print` method of the parent class `A`, then deploys its own code. This is equivalent to inheriting the `print` method of the parent class `A`.

### 4. Multiple Inheritance

JavaScript does not provide multiple inheritance functionality, i.e., it does not allow one object to inherit from multiple objects at the same time. However, this functionality can be implemented through a workaround.

```js
function M1() { // constructor function M1
  this.hello = 'hello';
}

function M2() { // constructor function M2
  this.world = 'world';
}

function S() { // child class constructor function S
  M1.call(this);
  M2.call(this);
}

// inherit M1
S.prototype = Object.create(M1.prototype);
// add M2 to the inheritance chain
Object.assign(S.prototype, M2.prototype);

// specify the constructor function
S.prototype.constructor = S;

var s = new S();
s.hello // 'hello'
s.world // 'world'
```

In the code above, the child class `S` inherits both parent classes `M1` and `M2`. This pattern is also called Mixin.

### 5. Modules

As websites gradually became “internet applications,” the JavaScript code embedded in web pages became increasingly large and complex. Web pages became more and more like desktop programs, requiring a team to divide labor and collaborate, manage progress, perform unit testing, and so on… Developers must use software engineering methods to manage the business logic of web pages.

**JavaScript modular programming** has already become an urgent need. Ideally, developers only need to implement the core business logic, and everything else can be loaded from modules already written by others.

However, JavaScript is not a modular programming language; only in ES6 did it begin to support “classes” and “modules.” Below introduces the traditional approach — how to use objects to achieve the effect of modules.



#### (1) Basic Implementation Method

**A module is an encapsulation of a set of properties and methods that implement a specific function.**

A simple approach is to write the module as an object, and put all module members inside this object.

```js
var module1 = new Object({
　_count : 0,
　m1 : function (){
　　//...
　},
　m2 : function (){
  　//...
　}
});
```

The functions `m1` and `m2` above are both encapsulated in the `module1` object. When using them, you call the properties of this object.

```js
// usage
module1.m1();
```

However, this way of writing exposes all module members, and the internal state can be modified from the outside. For example, external code can directly change the value of the internal counter.

```js
module1._count = 5;
```



#### (2) Encapsulating Private Variables:

##### (2-1) The Constructor Function Approach

We can use a constructor function to encapsulate private variables.

```js
function StringBuilder() {
  var buffer = []; // the module's private variable

  this.add = function (str) {
     buffer.push(str);
  };

  this.toString = function () {
    return buffer.join('');
  };

}
```

In the code above, `buffer` is the module's private variable. Once an instance object is generated, the outside cannot directly access `buffer`. However, this approach encapsulates the private variable in the constructor function, causing the constructor function and the instance object to be one entity that always exists in memory and cannot be cleared after use. This means the constructor function has a dual role — both shaping the instance object and storing the instance object's data — which violates the principle that the constructor function and the instance object should be separated in terms of data (i.e., the instance object's data should not be stored outside the instance object). At the same time, it consumes a lot of memory.

```js
function StringBuilder() {
  this._buffer = [];
}

StringBuilder.prototype = {
  constructor: StringBuilder,
  add: function (str) {
    this._buffer.push(str);
  },
  toString: function () {
    return this._buffer.join('');
  }
};
```

This approach puts the private variable into the instance object. The advantage is that it looks more natural, but its private variable can be read and written from the outside, which is not very secure.

##### (2-2) The Immediately-Invoked Function Approach

Another approach is to use an “immediately-invoked function” (Immediately-Invoked Function Expression, IIFE), encapsulating the related properties and methods within a function scope, which can achieve the goal of not exposing private members.

```js
var module1 = (function () {
　var _count = 0;
　var m1 = function () {
　  //...
　};
　var m2 = function () {
　　//...
　};
　return {
　　m1 : m1,
　　m2 : m2
　};
})();
```

Using the way of writing above, external code cannot read the internal `_count` variable.

```js
console.info(module1._count); //undefined
```

The `module1` above is the basic way of writing a JavaScript module. Below, we further refine this way of writing.



#### (3) The Augmentation Pattern of Modules (Adding New Methods to a Module)

If a module is very large and must be divided into several parts, or if a module needs to inherit another module, then it is necessary to adopt the “augmentation pattern” (augmentation).

```js
var module1 = (function (mod){
　mod.m3 = function () {
　　//...
　};
　return mod;
})(module1);
```

The code above adds a new method `m3()` to the `module1` module, and then returns the new `module1` module.

In a browser environment, the various parts of a module are usually fetched from the network, and sometimes it is impossible to know which part will load first. If you adopt the way of writing above, the first part to execute may load a non-existent empty object, in which case you need to adopt the “loose augmentation pattern” (Loose augmentation).

```js
var module1 = (function (mod) {
　//...
　return mod;
})(window.module1 || {});
```

Compared with the “augmentation pattern,” the “loose augmentation pattern” simply means the argument of the “immediately-invoked function” can be an empty object.

#### (4) Importing Global Variables (Ensuring Independence)

Independence is an important characteristic of modules; it is best for the module's internals not to interact directly with other parts of the program.

In order to call global variables inside a module, you must explicitly import other variables into the module.

```js
var module1 = (function ($, YAHOO) {
　//...
})(jQuery, YAHOO); // pass global variables into the module
```

The `module1` module above needs to use the jQuery library and the YUI library, so it imports these two libraries (which are actually two modules) into `module1` as arguments. Besides ensuring the module's independence, doing this also makes the dependencies between modules obvious.

**The immediately-invoked function can also serve the role of a namespace**.

```js
(function($, window, document) {

  function go(num) {
  }

  function handleEvents() {
  }

  function initialize() {
  }

  function dieCarouselDie() {
  }

  //attach to the global scope
  window.finalCarousel = { // expose the interface to the outside
    init : initialize,
    destroy : dieCarouselDie
  }

})( jQuery, window, document );
```

In the code above, the `finalCarousel` object is output to the global scope, exposing the `init` and `destroy` interfaces to the outside, while **the internal methods `go`, `handleEvents`, `initialize`, and `dieCarouselDie` are all uncallable from the outside**.



## IV. Methods Related to the Object Object

JavaScript provides many related methods on the `Object` object to handle operations related to object-oriented programming. This chapter introduces these methods.

### 1. Object.getPrototypeOf() — Getting the Prototype Object

The `Object.getPrototypeOf` method **returns the prototype of the argument object**. This is the standard method for getting the prototype object.

```js
var F = function () {};
var f = new F();
Object.getPrototypeOf(f) === F.prototype // true
```

In the code above, the prototype of the instance object `f` is `F.prototype`.

Below are the prototypes of several special objects.

```js
// the prototype of an empty object is Object.prototype
Object.getPrototypeOf({}) === Object.prototype // true

// the prototype of Object.prototype is null
Object.getPrototypeOf(Object.prototype) === null // true

// the prototype of a function is Function.prototype
function f() {}
Object.getPrototypeOf(f) === Function.prototype // true
```



### 2. Object.setPrototypeOf() — Setting the Prototype Object

The `Object.setPrototypeOf` method **sets the prototype** for the argument object and **returns that argument object**. It accepts two arguments, the first being the existing object and the second being the prototype object.

```js
var a = {};
var b = {x: 1};
Object.setPrototypeOf(a, b);

Object.getPrototypeOf(a) === b // true
a.x // 1  the a object shares the properties of the b object
```

In the code above, the `Object.setPrototypeOf` method sets the prototype of the object `a` to the object `b`, so `a` can share the properties of `b`.

##### **Simulating the `new` Command Using the `Object.setPrototypeOf` Method**

```js
var F = function () {
  this.foo = 'bar';
};

var f = new F();
// equivalent to
var f = Object.setPrototypeOf({}, F.prototype); // simulate the new command
F.call(f);
```

In the code above, the `new` command creating a new instance object can actually be divided into two steps. The first step is to set the prototype of an empty object to the constructor function's `prototype` property (in this example, `F.prototype`); the second step is to bind the `this` inside the constructor function to this empty object, then execute the constructor function, so that the methods and properties defined on `this` (in this example, `this.foo`) are all transferred to this empty object.

### 3. Object.create() — Creating an Instance Object Pointing to the Target Object's Prototype

The common way to generate an instance object is to use the `new` command to have a constructor function return an instance. But many times, you can only get an instance object, which may not have been generated by a constructor function at all, so can you generate another instance object from an instance object?

JavaScript provides the `Object.create` method to meet this need. **This method accepts an object as an argument, then uses it as the prototype and returns an instance object.** The instance fully inherits the properties of the prototype object.

```js
// prototype object
var A = {
  print: function () {
    console.log('hello');
  }
};

// instance object
var B = Object.create(A); // using A as the prototype, creates the B instance object, making B inherit A's properties

Object.getPrototypeOf(B) === A // true
B.print() // hello
B.print === A.print // true
```

In the code above, the `Object.create` method uses the `A` object as the prototype and generates the `B` object. `B` inherits all properties and methods of `A`.

In fact, the `Object.create` method can be replaced by the code below.

##### Internal Implementation Principle

```js
if (typeof Object.create !== 'function') {
  Object.create = function (obj) { // simulate the Object.create method
    function F() {} // create an empty constructor function F
    F.prototype = obj; // make F's prototype point to the argument obj (obj is the prototype object passed in)
    return new F(); // return an instance of F
  };
}
```

The code above shows that the essence of the `Object.create` method is to create a new empty constructor function `F`, then make the `F.prototype` property point to the argument object `obj`, and finally return an instance of `F`, thus making the instance inherit the properties of `obj`.



The new objects generated by the following three methods are equivalent.

```js
var obj1 = Object.create({});
var obj2 = Object.create(Object.prototype);
var obj3 = new Object();
```

If you want to generate an object that does not inherit any properties (for example, without the `toString` and `valueOf` methods), you can set the argument of `Object.create` to `null`.

```js
var obj = Object.create(null); // an object that does not inherit Object's toString and valueOf methods

obj.valueOf()
// TypeError: Object [object Object] has no method 'valueOf'
```

In the code above, the prototype of the object `obj` is `null`, so it does not have some properties defined on the `Object.prototype` object, such as the `valueOf` method.

When using the `Object.create` method, you must provide an object prototype, i.e., **the argument cannot be empty or not an object, otherwise an error will be thrown**.

```js
Object.create()
// TypeError: Object prototype may only be an Object or null
Object.create(123)
// TypeError: Object prototype may only be an Object or null
```

The new object generated by the `Object.create` method dynamically inherits the prototype. Adding or modifying any method on the prototype will immediately be reflected on the new object.

```js
var obj1 = { p: 1 };
var obj2 = Object.create(obj1);

obj1.p = 2;
obj2.p // 2  obj2's prototype points to obj1; when accessing the p property on obj2, the js engine first looks on obj2 itself, and if not found, goes to the prototype to look
```

In the code above, modifying the object prototype `obj1` affects the instance object `obj2`.

Besides the object's prototype, the `Object.create` method can also accept a **second argument. This argument is a property descriptor object, and the object properties it describes will be added to the instance object as the object's own properties**.

```js
var obj = Object.create({}, {
  p1: { // p1 is a property added to the obj instance object itself
    value: 123,
    enumerable: true,
    configurable: true,
    writable: true,
  },
  p2: {
    value: 'abc',
    enumerable: true,
    configurable: true,
    writable: true,
  }
});

// equivalent to
var obj = Object.create({});
obj.p1 = 123;
obj.p2 = 'abc';
```

The object generated by the `Object.create` method **inherits the constructor function of its prototype object**.

```js
function A() {}
var a = new A();
var b = Object.create(a);

b.constructor === A // true
b instanceof A // true
```

In the code above, the prototype of the `b` object is the `a` object, so it inherits the constructor function `A` of the `a` object.



### 4. Object.prototype.isPrototypeOf() — Determining Whether an Object Is the Prototype of the Argument Object

The `isPrototypeOf` method of an instance object is used to **determine whether the object is the prototype of the argument object**.

```js
var o1 = {};
var o2 = Object.create(o1);
var o3 = Object.create(o2);

o2.isPrototypeOf(o3) // true  determines whether o2 is the prototype of o3
o1.isPrototypeOf(o3) // true  determines whether o1 is the prototype of o3
```

In the code above, both `o1` and `o2` are prototypes of `o3`. This shows that as long as an instance object is on the prototype chain of the argument object, the `isPrototypeOf` method returns `true`.

```js
Object.prototype.isPrototypeOf({}) // true
Object.prototype.isPrototypeOf([]) // true
Object.prototype.isPrototypeOf(/xyz/) // true
Object.prototype.isPrototypeOf(Object.create(null)) // false
```

In the code above, since `Object.prototype` is at the very top of the prototype chain, it returns `true` for various instances, except objects that directly inherit from `null`.

### 5. Object.prototype.\_\_proto\_\_ — Returns the Object's Prototype, Readable and Writable

The `__proto__` **property** of an instance object (two underscores on each side) **returns the prototype of that object. This property is readable and writable**.

```js
var obj = Object.create({x:1}) // create instance object obj, with its prototype specified as {x:1}
obj.__proto__ // {x: 1}  the __proto__ property of the instance object obj returns the prototype of obj
Object.getPrototypeOf(obj) // {x: 1}
```

The code above creates the instance object obj via `Object.create`, specifies its prototype as `{x:1}`, and accessing the `__proto__` property of the obj object returns its prototype.

```js
var obj = {};
var p = {};

obj.__proto__ = p; // the prototype property is readable and writable
Object.getPrototypeOf(obj) === p // true
obj.__proto__ === Object.getPrototypeOf(obj) //true
```

The code above sets the `p` object as the prototype of the `obj` object via the `__proto__` property.

According to the language standard, the `__proto__` property only needs to be deployed by browsers, and other environments may not have this property. The two underscores on each side of it indicate that it is essentially an internal property and should not be exposed to users. **Therefore, you should use this property as little as possible, and instead use `Object.getPrototypeOf()` and `Object.setPrototypeOf()` to perform read and write operations on the prototype object**.

The prototype chain can be very intuitively represented using `__proto__`.

```js
var A = {
  name: 'Zhang San'
};
var B = {
  name: 'Li Si'
};

var proto = {
  print: function () {
    console.log(this.name);
  }
};

A.__proto__ = proto; // point A's prototype to the proto object
B.__proto__ = proto; // point B's prototype to the proto object

// share the print method; both call the print method inside the proto object
A.print() // Zhang San
B.print() // Li Si

A.print === B.print // true
A.print === proto.print // true
B.print === proto.print // true
```

In the code above, the prototypes of both the `A` object and the `B` object are the `proto` object, and they both share the `print` method of the `proto` object. In other words, the `print` methods of `A` and `B` both call the `print` method of the `proto` object.



### 6. Comparison of Methods for Getting the Prototype Object

As mentioned earlier, the `__proto__` property points to the prototype object of the current object, i.e., the constructor function's `prototype` property.

```js
var obj = new Object();

obj.__proto__ === Object.prototype
// true
obj.__proto__ === obj.constructor.prototype
// true
```

The code above first creates a new object `obj`, whose `__proto__` property points to the `prototype` property of the constructor function (`Object` or `obj.constructor`).

Therefore, there are three methods for getting the prototype object of the instance object `obj`.

- `obj.__proto__`
- `obj.constructor.prototype`
- `Object.getPrototypeOf(obj)`

Among the three methods above, the first two are not very reliable. The `__proto__` property only needs to be deployed by browsers, and other environments may not deploy it. And `obj.constructor.prototype` may become invalid when the prototype object is manually changed.

```js
var P = function () {};
var p = new P();

var C = function () {};
C.prototype = p;
var c = new C();

c.constructor.prototype === p // false
```

In the code above, the prototype object of the constructor function `C` was changed to `p`, but the instance object's `c.constructor.prototype` does not point to `p`. So, when changing the prototype object, you generally need to set the `constructor` property at the same time.

```js
C.prototype = p;
C.prototype.constructor = C; // this operation is used, for example, in constructor function inheritance

var c = new C();
c.constructor.prototype === p // true
```

Therefore, **it is recommended to use the third method, `Object.getPrototypeOf`, to get the prototype object**.



### 7. Object.getOwnPropertyNames()

The `Object.getOwnPropertyNames` method **returns an array whose members are the key names of all the argument object's own properties, not including inherited property key names**.

```js
Object.getOwnPropertyNames(Date)
// ["parse", "arguments", "UTC", "caller", "name", "prototype", "now", "length"]
```

In the code above, the `Object.getOwnPropertyNames` method returns all of `Date`'s own property names.

Among an object's own properties, some are enumerable and some are not. The `Object.getOwnPropertyNames` method returns all key names, regardless of whether they are enumerable. To get only those properties that are enumerable, use the `Object.keys` method.

```js
Object.keys(Date) // []
```

The code above shows that all of the `Date` object's own properties are non-enumerable.

### 8. Object.prototype.hasOwnProperty()

The `hasOwnProperty` method of an object instance returns a boolean value, used to **determine whether a certain property is defined on the object itself or on the prototype chain**.

```
Date.hasOwnProperty('length') // true
Date.hasOwnProperty('toString') // false
```

The code above shows that `Date.length` (how many arguments the constructor function `Date` can accept) is `Date`'s own property, while `Date.toString` is an inherited property.

In addition, the `hasOwnProperty` method is the only method in JavaScript that does not traverse the prototype chain when handling object properties.



### 9. The in Operator and the for...in Loop

The `in` operator **returns a boolean value indicating whether an object has a certain property**. It does not distinguish whether the property is the object's own property or an inherited property.

```js
'length' in Date // true
'toString' in Date // true
```

The `in` operator is commonly used to check whether a property exists.

To get all enumerable properties of an object (whether its own or inherited), you can use the `for...in` loop.

```js
var o1 = { p1: 123 };

var o2 = Object.create(o1, { // o2's prototype points to o1, and a property p2 is defined on o2
  p2: { value: "abc", enumerable: true }
});

for (p in o2) {
  console.info(p);
}
// p2
// p1    inherited property
```

In the code above, the `p2` property of the object `o2` is its own, and the `p1` property is inherited. Both properties are traversed by the `for...in` loop.

To get an object's own properties in a `for...in` loop, you can use the `hasOwnProperty` method to check.

```js
for ( var name in object ) {
  if ( object.hasOwnProperty(name) ) { // filter out properties that are not its own
    /* loop code */
  }
}
```

**To get all properties of an object (whether its own or inherited, and whether enumerable or not)**, you can use the following function.

```js
function inheritedPropertyNames(obj) {
  var props = {};
  while(obj) {
     // get all properties of the obj object, including non-enumerable ones,
    Object.getOwnPropertyNames(obj).forEach(function(p) {
      props[p] = true;
    });
    obj = Object.getPrototypeOf(obj); // get the prototype of the object
  }
    console.log(props)
  return Object.getOwnPropertyNames(props);
}
```

The code above sequentially gets the “own” properties of each level of the prototype object of the `obj` object, thus getting “all” properties of the `obj` object, regardless of whether they are enumerable.

Below is an example listing all properties of the `Date` object.

```js
inheritedPropertyNames(Date)
// [
//  "caller",
//  "constructor",
//  "toString",
//  "UTC",
//  ...
// ]
```

### 10. Copying Objects

To copy an object, you need to do the following two things.

- Ensure that the copied object has the same prototype as the original object.
- Ensure that the copied object has the same instance properties as the original object.

Below is an object-copying function implemented based on the two points above.

```js
function copyObject(orig) { // object-copying function
    // create a new object whose prototype points to the prototype of the old object
  var copy = Object.create(Object.getPrototypeOf(orig));
  copyOwnPropertiesFrom(copy, orig);
  return copy;
}

function copyOwnPropertiesFrom(target, source) { // copy the instance properties of the old object
  Object
    .getOwnPropertyNames(source)
    .forEach(function (propKey) {
      // get the property descriptor object of each property
      var desc = Object.getOwnPropertyDescriptor(source, propKey);
      // define the property, defining the propKey property on the target object with the property descriptor object being desc
      Object.defineProperty(target, propKey, desc);
    });
  return target;
}
```

Another simpler way of writing it is to use the `Object.getOwnPropertyDescriptors` method, which was only introduced into the standard in ES2017.

```js
function copyObject(orig) {
  return Object.create(
    Object.getPrototypeOf(orig),
    Object.getOwnPropertyDescriptors(orig)
  );
}
```

## V. Strict Mode

In addition to the normal running mode, JavaScript has a second running mode: strict mode. As the name implies, this mode adopts a more strict JavaScript syntax.

The same code may have different running results in normal mode and strict mode. Some statements that can run in normal mode will not be able to run in strict mode.

### 1. Design Purpose

The early JavaScript language had many unreasonable design aspects, but in order to maintain compatibility with previous code, the old syntax could not be changed, so new syntax could only be continually added to guide programmers to use the new syntax.

Strict mode entered the standard in ES5, mainly for the following purposes.

- Explicitly prohibit some unreasonable and lax syntax, reducing some of the quirky behaviors of the JavaScript language.
- Add more error-throwing situations, eliminating some unsafe aspects of code execution and ensuring the safety of code execution.
- Improve compiler efficiency and increase running speed.
- Lay the groundwork for the syntax of future new versions of JavaScript.

In short, strict mode reflects a more reasonable, safer, and more rigorous direction for the development of JavaScript.

### 2. How to Enable It

```js
'use strict';
```

> More content about strict mode: <https://wangdoc.com/javascript/oop/strict.html>



## Documentation

Learning documentation: <https://wangdoc.com/javascript/>
