---
title: Understanding the Box Model Through the box-sizing Property
date: 2020-02-27 17:08:48
permalink: /pages/20a978023139589d
categories:
  - Pages
  - CSS
tags: 
  - null
author: 
  name: xugaoyi
  link: https://github.com/xugaoyi
---
# Understanding the Box Model Through the box-sizing Property



## Background

Let's first clarify the scenario: if the project layout uses a **responsive** approach where the div's width is given as a **percentage** (i.e., 100% of the window width), but the `border` and `padding` are specified in pixels, the div's total width will exceed the window width. To avoid this, you can use `box-sizing: border-box` to switch from the **standard box model** to the **alternative (IE) box model**, keeping the div's total width at 100%.
<!-- more -->
## What Is the CSS Box Model?

In page layout, an element's margin, border, padding, and content form a box model. The box model can be divided into the **standard box model** and the **alternative (IE) box model**.



## Standard Box Model

In the standard model, when you set `width` and `height` on a box, you're actually setting the width and height of the content area (*content box*). The `padding` and `border` are added on top of the set width and height to determine the total size of the box.

**Example:**

```css
.box {
  width: 100px;
  height: 50px;
  margin: 10px;
  padding: 25px;
  border: 5px solid black;
}
```

Using the standard model, the total element width = 160px (100+25+25+5+5) and total height = 110px (50 + 25 + 25 + 5 + 5), which is the `content box` plus `padding` and `border`.

> **Note**: margin is not counted in the actual size -- of course it affects the space the box occupies on the page, but it affects the external space.



## Alternative (IE) Box Model

You might find it inconvenient that the box size requires adding border and padding. For this reason, CSS provides an alternative box model. With this model, all widths are the visible width, so the content width is the total width minus the border and padding. Using the same styles above, the total dimensions are width = 100px, height = 50px.

Browsers use the standard model by default. To use the alternative model, set `box-sizing: border-box`. This tells the browser to use `border-box` to define the area, so you get the size you specify.

```css
.box { 
  box-sizing: border-box; 
} 
```



## The box-sizing Property

The **`box-sizing`** property in CSS tells the browser how to calculate an element's total width and height.

<iframe class="interactive" frameborder="0" height="390" src="https://interactive-examples.mdn.mozilla.net/pages/css/box-sizing.html" title="MDN Web Docs Interactive Example" width="100%"></iframe>


In the default definition of the [CSS Box Model](https://developer.mozilla.org/zh-CN/docs/CSS/Box_model), the [`width`](https://developer.mozilla.org/zh-CN/docs/Web/CSS/width) and [`height`](https://developer.mozilla.org/zh-CN/docs/Web/CSS/height) you set on an element only apply to the content area. If the element has any [`border`](https://developer.mozilla.org/zh-CN/docs/Web/CSS/border) or [`padding`](https://developer.mozilla.org/zh-CN/docs/Web/CSS/padding), the rendered box width and height will include the border and padding values. This means you must always account for borders and padding when sizing elements. This is especially frustrating when implementing responsive layouts.

The box-sizing property can be used to adjust this behavior:

- `content-box` is the default. If you set an element's width to 100px, the content area will be 100px wide, and any border and padding widths are added to the rendered element width.

  - Size formula:

    `width` = content width

    `height` = content height



- `border-box` tells the browser that the border and padding values are included in the width. That is, if you set an element's width to 100px, those 100px include its border and padding, and the actual content width is the width minus (border + padding). In most cases, this makes it easier to size elements.

  - Size formula:

    *`width` = border + padding + content width*

    *`height` = border + padding + content height*



Source: <https://developer.mozilla.org/zh-CN/docs/Web/CSS/box-sizing>

