---
title: Git Branch Creation and Merging - Branch Operations
date: 2020-11-18 17:43:57
permalink: /pages/ea5a8c/
categories:
  - 《Git》学习笔记
tags:
  - Git
author:
  name: xugaoyi
  link: https://github.com/xugaoyi
---
# Git Branch Creation and Merging - Branch Operations

Documentation: [Git Branching - Basic Branching and Merging](https://git-scm.com/book/zh/v2/Git-分支-分支的新建与合并)



### Creating and Switching to a Branch

Suppose you have a new requirement and need to work on a new branch `iss53`:

```sh
$ git checkout -b iss53  # b stands for branch
```

This is shorthand for the following two commands:

```sh
$ git branch iss53
$ git checkout iss53
```



### Switching Branches

An urgent issue suddenly comes up, and you need to fix it on the original `master` branch:

```sh
$ git checkout master
```

Before switching to `master`, make sure the `iss53` branch is in a clean state (all changes have been committed).

**Note: Switching branches causes Git to reset your working directory.**

> The word `checkout` literally means "to check out." `checkout <branch>` checks out a branch, i.e., checks out the code of the specified branch, which resets the working directory and switches the branch.



Next, you need to fix the urgent issue. Create a `hotfix` branch and work on it until the issue is resolved:

```sh
$ git checkout -b hotfix

# In between, modify the code on hotfix and commit
$ echo 'test' > ./hotfix.txt
$ git add .
$ git commit -m 'fixed'
```



### Merging Branches

```sh
$ git checkout master # First, switch back to the master branch
$ git merge hotfix # Merge the hotfix branch in
```





### Deleting a Branch

```sh
$ git branch -d hotfix # d stands for delete

# Then switch back to iss53 to continue working
$ git checkout iss53
```

Note that deleting a branch uses the `branch` command.



### Merging Branches After Multiple Commits

Suppose you have finished fixing issue #53 and want to merge it into the `master` branch:

```sh
$ git checkout master
$ git merga iss53
```

This looks similar to the previous merge. But now your development history has diverged from an earlier point. Because the commit on `master` is not a direct ancestor of the commit on `iss53`, Git has to do some extra work. In this case, Git uses the snapshots pointed to by the tips of both branches and their common ancestor to perform a simple **three-way merge**.

Unlike simply moving the branch pointer forward, **Git creates a new snapshot from the result of this three-way merge and automatically creates a new commit pointing to it**. This is called a merge commit, and its special feature is that it has more than one parent commit.



### Branch Merging with Conflicts

If you made **different changes to the same part of the same file** in two different branches, Git won't be able to merge them cleanly, resulting in a conflict.

When `CONFLICT` appears during the merge, it indicates a conflict:

```sh
$ git merge iss53
Auto-merging index.html
CONFLICT (content): Merge conflict in index.html
Automatic merge failed; fix conflicts and then commit the result.
```

Use `git status` to see the unmerged status.

Any files with merge conflicts will be marked as unmerged. **Git adds standard conflict-resolution markers to the conflicting files, so you can open them and manually resolve the conflicts.** Files with conflicts will contain special sections that look like this:

```html
<<<<<<< HEAD:index.html
<div id="footer">contact : email.support@github.com</div>
=======
<div id="footer">
 please contact us at support@github.com
</div>
>>>>>>> iss53:index.html
```

You need to **manually resolve the conflicts**. After resolving all conflicts in all files, **use `git add`** on each file to mark it as resolved. **Once you stage the formerly conflicting files, Git considers them resolved.**

If you are satisfied with the result and have confirmed that all previously conflicting files have been staged, you can run `git commit` to finalize the merge commit.
