---
title: Basic Types
date: 2020-01-05 10:17:47
permalink: /pages/28672e2743bbc3a7
author: HuangYi
categories:
  - Building axios from Scratch with TypeScript
  - Common TypeScript Syntax
tags:
  - TypeScript
---
# Basic Types

TypeScript supports nearly the same data types as JavaScript, and additionally provides the useful enum type for our convenience.

## Boolean

The most basic data type is the simple true/false value, called `boolean` in JavaScript and TypeScript (as well as in other languages).

```typescript
let isDone: boolean = false
```

## Number

As in JavaScript, all numbers in TypeScript are floating-point values. These floating-point numbers are of type number. In addition to hexadecimal and decimal literals, TypeScript also supports binary and octal literals introduced in ECMAScript 2015.

```typescript
let decLiteral: number = 20
let hexLiteral: number = 0x14
let binaryLiteral: number = 0b10100
let octalLiteral: number = 0o24
```

## String

Another fundamental operation in JavaScript programs is working with textual data on the web or server side. As in other languages, we use the `string` type to represent textual data. Like JavaScript, you can use double quotes (`"`) or single quotes (`'`) to denote strings.

```typescript
let name: string = 'bob'
name = 'smith'
```

You can also use template strings, which can span multiple lines and embed expressions. These strings are enclosed by backticks (``` ` ```), and embedded expressions use the `${ expr }` syntax.

```typescript
let name: string = `Yee`
let age: number = 37
let sentence: string = `Hello, my name is ${ name }.

I'll be ${ age + 1 } years old next month.`
```

This is equivalent to defining `sentence` like this:

```typescript
let sentence: string = 'Hello, my name is ' + name + '.\n\n' +
    'I\'ll be ' + (age + 1) + ' years old next month.'
```

## Array

TypeScript, like JavaScript, allows you to work with arrays of values. There are two ways to define arrays. The first uses the element type followed by `[]` to denote an array of that element type:

```typescript
let list: number[] = [1, 2, 3]
```

The second way uses a generic array type, `Array<element type>`:

```typescript
let list: Array<number> = [1, 2, 3]
```

## Tuple

Tuple types allow you to express an array with a fixed number of elements whose types are known, but need not be the same. For example, you may want to represent a pair of values as a `string` and a `number`:

```typescript
let x: [string, number]
x = ['hello', 10] // OK
x = [10, 'hello'] // Error
```

When accessing an element at a known index, the correct type is retrieved:

```typescript
console.log(x[0].substr(1)) // OK
console.log(x[1].substr(1)) // Error, 'number' does not have 'substr'
```

When accessing an element outside the set of known indices, a union type is used instead:

```typescript
x[3] = 'world' // OK, string can be assigned to (string | number) type

console.log(x[5].toString()) // OK, 'string' and 'number' both have toString

x[6] = true // Error, boolean is not (string | number) type
```

Union types are an advanced topic that we will discuss in a later section.

**Note**: Since TypeScript 3.1, accessing out-of-bounds elements will cause an error, and we should no longer use this feature.

## Enum

The `enum` type is a supplement to JavaScript's standard data types. Like languages such as C#, enum types allow you to give friendly names to a set of numeric values.

```typescript
enum Color {Red, Green, Blue}
let c: Color = Color.Green
```

By default, members are numbered starting from `0`. You can also manually set the value of a member. For example, we change the above example to start numbering from `1`:

```typescript
enum Color {Red = 1, Green, Blue}
let c: Color = Color.Green
```

Or, manually assign all values:

```typescript
enum Color {Red = 1, Green = 2, Blue = 4}
let c: Color = Color.Green
```

A handy feature of enums is that you can look up the name from a numeric value. For example, if we know the value is 2 but aren't sure which name it maps to in the Color enum, we can look up the corresponding name:

```typescript
enum Color {Red = 1, Green, Blue}
let colorName: string = Color[2]

console.log(colorName)  // Displays 'Green' since its value is 2 in the code above
```

## any

Sometimes we want to specify a type for variables whose type isn't clear at the programming stage. These values may come from dynamic content, such as user input or third-party libraries. In these cases, we don't want the type checker to check these values and instead just let them pass through the compile-time check. We can use the `any` type to label these variables:

```typescript
let notSure: any = 4
notSure = 'maybe a string instead'
notSure = false // could also be a boolean
```

The `any` type is very useful when rewriting existing code, as it allows you to optionally include or exclude type checking during compilation. It's also useful when you only know some of the data types. For example, you might have an array containing different types of data:

```typescript
let list: any[] = [1, true, 'free']

list[1] = 100
```

## void

In some sense, the `void` type is the opposite of `any` -- it represents the absence of any type. You will commonly see it as the return type of functions that do not return a value:

```typescript
function warnUser(): void {
  console.log('This is my warning message')
}

```

Declaring a `void` variable isn't very useful because you can only assign `undefined` and `null` to it:

```typescript
let unusable: void = undefined
```

## null and undefined

In TypeScript, `undefined` and `null` each have their own types called `undefined` and `null` respectively. Similar to `void`, their types by themselves aren't very useful:

```typescript
let u: undefined = undefined
let n: null = null
```

By default, `null` and `undefined` are subtypes of all other types. This means you can assign `null` and `undefined` to variables of type `number`.

However, when using the `--strictNullChecks` flag, `null` and `undefined` are only assignable to `void` and their respective types, which helps avoid many common issues. If you want to pass a `string` or `null` or `undefined` somewhere, you can use the union type `string | null | undefined`. Again, we will cover union types later.

## never

The `never` type represents the type of values that never occur. For example, `never` is the return type for function expressions or arrow function expressions that always throw an exception or never return at all; variables can also be of type `never` when constrained by type guards that are never true.

The `never` type is a subtype of every type and is assignable to every type; however, no type is a subtype of `never` or assignable to `never` (except `never` itself). Even `any` is not assignable to `never`.

Here are some functions that return `never`:

```typescript
// A function returning never must have an unreachable endpoint
function error(message: string): never {
  throw new Error(message)
}

// Inferred return type is never
function fail() {
  return error("Something failed")
}

// A function returning never must have an unreachable endpoint
function infiniteLoop(): never {
  while (true) {
  }
}
```

## object

`object` represents non-primitive types, i.e., anything that is not `number`, `string`, `boolean`, `symbol`, `null`, or `undefined`.

Using the `object` type allows for better representation of APIs like `Object.create`. For example:

```typescript
declare function create(o: object | null): void

create({ prop: 0 }) // OK
create(null) // OK

create(42) // Error
create('string') // Error
create(false) // Error
create(undefined) // Error
```

## Type Assertions

Sometimes you'll end up in a situation where you know more about a value than TypeScript does. Usually this happens when you know that the type of an entity is more specific than its current type.

Type assertions are a way to tell the compiler, "trust me, I know what I'm doing." Type assertions are like type casts in other languages but perform no special data checking or restructuring. They have no runtime impact and are used purely by the compiler. TypeScript assumes that you, the programmer, have performed whatever checks are necessary.

Type assertions have two forms. One is the "angle-bracket" syntax:

```typescript
let someValue: any = 'this is a string'

let strLength: number = (<string>someValue).length
```

The other is the `as` syntax:

```typescript
let someValue: any = 'this is a string'

let strLength: number = (someValue as string).length
```

The two forms are equivalent. Which one you use is mostly a matter of personal preference; however, when using TypeScript with JSX, only `as`-style assertions are allowed.
