---
title: Variable Declarations
date: 2020-01-05 10:17:47
permalink: /pages/54add7f5cf78088e
author: HuangYi
categories:
  - Building axios from Scratch with TypeScript
  - Common TypeScript Syntax
tags:
  - TypeScript
---
# Variable Declarations

`let` and `const` are relatively new ways to declare variables in JavaScript. `let` is similar to `var` in many ways, but helps avoid some common pitfalls in JavaScript. `const` is an enhancement over `let` that prevents reassignment of a variable.

Since TypeScript is a superset of JavaScript, it naturally supports `let` and `const`. Below we will elaborate on these new declaration methods and why they are recommended over `var`.

If you're already well aware of the quirks of `var` declarations, you can easily skip this section.

## var Declarations

In the ES5 era, we always defined JavaScript variables using the `var` keyword:

```javascript
var a = 10
```

As we all know, this defines a variable named `a` with the value `10`.

We can also define variables inside functions:

```javascript
function f() {
  var message = 'Hello World!'

  return message
}
```

And we can access the same variable inside other functions:

```javascript
function f() {
  var a = 10
  return function g() {
    var b = a + 1
    return b
  }
}

var g = f()
g() // returns 11
```

The above example is a classic closure scenario -- `g` can access the variable `a` defined in `f`. Every time `g` is called, it can access `a` from `f`. Even when `g` is called after `f` has finished executing, it can still access `a`.

### Scoping Rules

`var` declarations have some strange scoping rules. Consider the following example:

```javascript
function f(shouldInitialize) {
  if (shouldInitialize) {
    var x = 10
  }

  return x
}

f(true)  // returns '10'
f(false) // returns 'undefined'
```

Some of you may need to look at this example several times. The variable `x` is defined inside the `if` statement, yet we can access it outside the statement. This is because `var` declarations use function scope -- function parameters also use function scope.

These scoping rules can cause several types of errors. One problem is that declaring the same variable multiple times does not produce an error:

```javascript
function sumMatrix(matrix) {
  var sum = 0
  for (var i = 0; i < matrix.length; i++) {
    var currentRow = matrix[i]
    for (var i = 0; i < currentRow.length; i++) {
      sum += currentRow[i]
    }
  }

  return sum
}
```

It's easy to spot the problem here -- the inner `for` loop overwrites the variable `i` because all references to `i` point to the same function-scoped variable. Experienced developers know well that these issues can slip through code review and cause endless trouble.

### Variable Capturing Quirks

Take a guess at what the following code will output:

```javascript
for (var i = 0; i < 10; i++) {
  setTimeout(function() {
    console.log(i)
  }, 100 * i)
}
```

The answer is that `setTimeout` will execute a function after a delay of several milliseconds (waiting for other code to finish):

``` javascript
10
10
10
10
10
10
10
10
10
10
```

Many JavaScript programmers are familiar with this behavior, but if you're confused, you're not alone. Most people expect the output to be:

```javascript
0
1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
```

> Every function expression we pass to `setTimeout` actually refers to the same `i` from the same scope.

Let's take a moment to think about why. `setTimeout` runs a function after some number of milliseconds, and it runs after the `for` loop has completed. After the `for` loop finishes, the value of `i` is `10`. So when the function is called, it prints `10`.

A common solution is to use an immediately-invoked function expression (IIFE) to capture the value of `i` at each iteration:

```javascript
for (var i = 0; i < 10; i++) {
  (function(i) {
    setTimeout(function() {
      console.log(i)
    }, 100 * i)
  })(i)
}
```

This odd-looking pattern is already very familiar. The parameter `i` shadows the `for` loop's `i`, but since we gave them the same name, we don't need to change the `for` loop body code much.

## let Declarations

By now you know that `var` has some issues, which is exactly why `let` statements were introduced for declaring variables. Other than the different keyword, `let` is written the same way as `var`:

```javascript
let hello = 'Hello!'
```

The key difference is not in syntax but in semantics, which we'll dive into next.

### Block Scoping

When a variable is declared using `let`, it uses block scoping. Unlike `var`-declared variables which can be accessed outside their containing function, block-scoped variables cannot be accessed outside their containing block or `for` loop.

```typescript
function f(input: boolean) {
  let a = 100

  if (input) {
    // OK: still accessible
    let b = a + 1
    return b
  }

  // Error: 'b' doesn't exist here
  return b
}
```

Here we defined 2 variables `a` and `b`. `a` is scoped to the body of `f`, while `b` is scoped to the `if` statement block.

Variables declared in a `catch` clause have similar scoping rules.

```typescript
try {
  throw 'Oh no!';
}
catch (e) {
  console.log('Catch it.')
}

// Error: 'e' doesn't exist here
console.log(e)
```

Another property of block-scoped variables is that they can't be read or written to before they're declared. While these variables are "present" throughout their scope, the region before their declaration is called the *temporal dead zone*. It simply means we can't access them before the `let` statement, and fortunately `TypeScript` can tell us about this.

```typescript
a++ // TS2448: Block-scoped variable 'a' used before its declaration.
let a
```

Note that you can still capture a block-scoped variable before it's declared. However, you can't call that function before the variable's declaration. If targeting ES2015, modern runtimes will throw an error; however, TypeScript currently won't report an error.

```typescript
function foo() {
  // okay to capture 'a'
  return a
}

// Can't call 'foo' before 'a' is declared
// Runtime should throw an error
foo()

let a
```

For more information on the *temporal dead zone*, see [Mozilla Developer Network](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Statements/let#Temporal_dead_zone_and_errors_with_let).


### Redeclarations and Shadowing

We mentioned that with `var` declarations, it doesn't matter how many times you declare; you only get 1.

```javascript
function f(x) {
  var x
  var x

  if (true) {
    var x
  }
}
```

In the above example, all declarations of `x` actually refer to the same `x`, and this is perfectly valid code, but it often becomes a source of bugs. Fortunately, `let` declarations are not so lenient.

```typescript
let x = 10
let x = 20 // Error, can't re-declare x in the same scope
```

TypeScript doesn't require both declarations to be block-scoped before issuing an error warning.

```typescript
function f(x) {
  let x = 100 // Error: interferes with parameter declaration
}

function g() {
  let x = 100
  var x = 100 // Error: can't have both declarations of x
}
```

It's not that block-scoped variables can never be declared with the same name as a function-scoped variable. Rather, the block-scoped variable just needs to be declared in a distinctly different block.

```typescript
function f(condition, x) {
  if (condition) {
    let x = 100
    return x
  }

  return x
}

f(false, 0) // returns 0
f(true, 0)  // returns 100
```

The act of introducing a new name in a nested scope is called shadowing. It is a double-edged sword -- it can accidentally introduce new problems but can also resolve certain bugs. For example, let's rewrite our earlier `sumMatrix` function using `let`.

```typescript
function sumMatrix(matrix: number[][]) {
  let sum = 0
  for (let i = 0; i < matrix.length; i++) {
    let currentRow = matrix[i]
    for (let i = 0; i < currentRow.length; i++) {
      sum += currentRow[i]
    }
  }

  return sum
}
```

This version of the loop produces the correct result because the inner loop's `i` shadows the outer loop's `i`.

Generally, shadowing should be avoided because we need to write clear code. However, there are scenarios where it can be useful, and you need to weigh the trade-offs.

### Block-Scoped Variable Capturing

Each time a scope is entered, `let` creates an environment for the variable. Even after the code within the scope has finished executing, that environment and its captured variables persist.

Recall the earlier `setTimeout` example -- we eventually needed to use an IIFE to capture the state of `i` for each `for` loop iteration. What we were really doing was creating a new variable environment for the captured variable. This was painful, but fortunately you don't need to do this in `TypeScript`.

When a `let` declaration appears in a loop body, it has entirely different behavior. Instead of just introducing a new variable environment to the loop, it creates a new scope for each iteration -- essentially the same thing we did with the IIFE. So in the `setTimeout` example, we can simply use `let` declarations.

```typescript
for (let i = 0; i < 10 ; i++) {
  setTimeout(function() {
    console.log(i)
  }, 100 * i)
}
```

This outputs the expected result:

```javascript
0
1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
```
## const Declarations

`const` declarations are another way to declare variables.

```typescript
const numLivesForCat = 9
```

They are similar to `let` declarations, but as their name suggests, once assigned, they cannot be changed. In other words, they have the same scoping rules as `let`, but you cannot reassign them.

This is straightforward -- the value they reference is immutable.

```typescript
const numLivesForCat = 9
const kitty = {
  name: 'Kitty',
  numLives: numLivesForCat
}

// Error
kitty = {
  name: 'Tommy',
  numLives: numLivesForCat
};

// OK
kitty.name = 'Jerry'
kitty.numLives--
```

Unless you take special measures, the internal state of a `const` variable is still modifiable. Fortunately, `TypeScript` allows you to set object members as read-only. The Interfaces section has detailed information.

## let vs. const

Now that we have two declaration methods with similar scoping, the natural question is which one to use. Like most broad questions, the answer is: it depends.

Using the principle of least privilege, all variables that you don't plan to modify should use `const`. The basic rule is that if a variable doesn't need to be written to, then others using the code shouldn't be able to write to it either, and you should think about why these variables would need reassignment. Using `const` also makes it easier to reason about data flow.

## Destructuring

### Array Destructuring

The simplest form of destructuring is array destructuring assignment:

```typescript
let input = [1, 2]
let [first, second] = input
console.log(first) // outputs 1
console.log(second) // outputs 2
```

This creates 2 named variables `first` and `second`. This is equivalent to using indexing but more convenient:

```typescript
let first = input[0]
let second = input[1]
```

Destructuring works with function parameters:

```typescript
let input: [number, number] = [1, 2]

function f([first, second]: [number, number]) {
  console.log(first)
  console.log(second)
}

f(input)
```

You can create rest variables using the `...` syntax in arrays:

```typescript
let [first, ...rest] = [1, 2, 3, 4]
console.log(first) // outputs 1
console.log(rest) // outputs [ 2, 3, 4 ]
```

You can also ignore trailing elements you don't care about:

```typescript
let [first] = [1, 2, 3, 4]
console.log(first) // outputs 1
```

Or other elements:

```typescript
let [, second, , fourth] = [1, 2, 3, 4]
```

### Object Destructuring

You can also destructure objects:

```typescript
let o = {
    a: 'foo',
    b: 12,
    c: 'bar'
}
let { a, b } = o

```

This creates `a` and `b` from `o.a` and `o.b`. Note that you can skip `c` if you don't need it.

You can create rest variables using the `...` syntax in objects:

```typescript
let { a, ...passthrough } = o
let total = passthrough.b + passthrough.c.length
```

### Property Renaming

You can give properties different names:

```typescript
let { a: newName1, b: newName2 } = o
```

The syntax here gets confusing. You can read `a: newName1` as "`a` as `newName1`". The direction is left-to-right, as if you had written:

```typescript
let newName1 = o.a
let newName2 = o.b
```

Confusingly, the colon here does not indicate the type. If you want to specify the type, you still need to write the full pattern after it.

```typescript
let {a, b}: {a: string, b: number} = o
```

### Default Values

Default values let you use a fallback when a property is `undefined`:

```typescript
function keepWholeObject(wholeObject: { a: string, b?: number }) {
  let { a, b = 1001 } = wholeObject
}
```

Now, even if `b` is `undefined`, the `keepWholeObject` function's `wholeObject` variable will have values for both properties `a` and `b`.

### Function Declarations

Destructuring also works with function declarations. Consider this simple case:

```typescript
type C = { a: string, b?: number }
function f({ a, b }: C): void {
  // ...
}
```
But usually it's more common to specify defaults, and getting defaults right with destructuring can be tricky. First, you need to write the pattern before the default value.

```typescript
function f({ a = '', b = 0 } = {}): void {
  // ...
}
f()
```

> The above code is an example of type inference, which will be introduced in later sections.

Second, you need to know how to give a default or optional property on the destructured property to replace the main initializer list. Remember that C's definition has an optional property b:

```typescript
function f({ a, b = 0 } = { a: '' }): void {
  // ...
}
f({ a: 'yes' }) // OK, default b = 0
f() // OK, default a: '', b = 0
f({}) // Error, 'a' is required once a parameter is passed
```

Use destructuring with care. As the previous examples show, even the simplest destructuring expressions can be hard to understand. Especially with deeply nested destructuring, it can become truly difficult to understand even without stacking renaming, default values, and type annotations. Try to keep destructuring expressions small and simple.

## Spread

```typescript
let first = [1, 2]
let second = [3, 4]
let bothPlus = [0, ...first, ...second, 5]
```
This gives `bothPlus` the value `[0, 1, 2, 3, 4, 5]`. The spread operation creates a shallow copy of `first` and `second`. They are not modified by the spread.

You can also spread objects:

```typescript
let defaults = { food: 'spicy', price: '$10', ambiance: 'noisy' }
let search = { ...defaults, food: 'rich' }
```

The value of search is `{ food: 'rich', price: '$10', ambiance: 'noisy' }`. Object spreading is more complex than array spreading. Like array spreading, it proceeds left-to-right, but the result is still an object. This means properties that come later in the spread object overwrite earlier properties. So if we modify the above example to spread at the end:

```typescript
let defaults = { food: 'spicy', price: '$10', ambiance: 'noisy' }
let search = { food: 'rich', ...defaults }
```

Then the `food` property in `defaults` will overwrite `food: 'rich'`, which is not the result we want here.
