---
title: ts-axios Compilation and Publishing
date: 2020-01-05 10:56:02
permalink: /pages/3e5d5a45ad50f198
author: HuangYi
categories:
  - Building axios from Scratch with TypeScript
  - ts-axios Deployment and Publishing
tags:
  - TypeScript
---
# ts-axios Compilation and Publishing

## Requirements Analysis

In the previous chapters we completed writing the code and unit tests for the `ts-axios` library. In this chapter we want to deploy and publish the code to the public `npm` registry so that others can download and use it. However, not everyone develops with TypeScript; there are still a large number of JavaScript users who cannot directly reference TypeScript code. Therefore we need to first compile and bundle the source code, and then publish it.

Since we will publish the package to the public npm registry, if you don't have an `npm` account yet, you need to [register on the official site](https://www.npmjs.com/signup) first. After registering, you can run `npm login` in the terminal to log in. This step is very important and determines whether you can ultimately publish successfully.

## Compiling and Bundling

We will use [rollup](https://github.com/rollup/rollup) to bundle our `ts-axios` library. It is a very well-known compilation and bundling tool; Vue.js is also compiled and bundled with rollup. Compared with webpack, it is very well suited for compiling and bundling JS libraries.

Since we initialized our project with `typescript-library-starter`, we already have the rollup bundling configuration and the relevant plugins installed. Next, we'll make a few small changes to the generated `rollup.config.ts`.

### Modifying rollup.config.ts

```typescript
import resolve from 'rollup-plugin-node-resolve'
import commonjs from 'rollup-plugin-commonjs'
import sourceMaps from 'rollup-plugin-sourcemaps'
import camelCase from 'lodash.camelcase'
import typescript from 'rollup-plugin-typescript2'
import json from 'rollup-plugin-json'

const pkg = require('./package.json')

const libraryName = 'axios'

export default {
  input: `src/index.ts`,
  output: [
    { file: pkg.main, name: camelCase(libraryName), format: 'umd', sourcemap: true },
    { file: pkg.module, format: 'es', sourcemap: true }
  ],
  // Indicate here external modules you don't wanna include in your bundle (i.e.: 'lodash')
  external: [],
  watch: {
    include: 'src/**'
  },
  plugins: [
    // Allow json resolution
    json(),
    // Compile TypeScript files
    typescript({ useTsconfigDeclarationDir: true }),
    // Allow bundling cjs modules (unlike webpack, rollup doesn't understand cjs)
    commonjs(),
    // Allow node_modules resolution, so you can use 'external' to control
    // which external modules to include in the bundle
    // https://github.com/rollup/rollup-plugin-node-resolve#usage
    resolve(),

    // Resolve source maps to the original source
    sourceMaps()
  ]
}
```

Note the places to change: set `libraryName` to `axios`, and set `input` to `src/index.ts`.

The `rollup` configuration is very simple; let's quickly go over it.

- input

The bundle entry file.

- output

The output target files. It is an array of objects, and we can specify the output format, such as `umd` format, `es` mode, and so on.

- external

Declares external dependencies that don't need to be bundled in.

- watch

Watches for file changes and recompiles. It only takes effect when `--watch` is enabled during compilation.

- plugins

The plugins used during compilation. Among them, `rollup-plugin-typescript2` is used to compile TypeScript files, and `useTsconfigDeclarationDir` indicates using the `declarationDir` defined in the `tsconfig.json` file. Those interested in the other plugins can look them up in the documentation themselves.

### Modifying package.json

Since we already changed `libraryName` to `axios` in `rollup.config.ts`, you need to make the corresponding changes in the `package.json` file:

```typescript
{
  "main": "dist/axios.umd.js",
  "module": "dist/axios.es5.js",
  "typings": "dist/types/index.d.ts"
}
```

Then we run `npm run build` in the console, which compiles and outputs the `dist` directory. In it, the `lib` directory contains the `.js` files compiled from individual `.ts` files. The `types` directory contains the `.d.ts` declaration files generated from compiling all the `.ts` files. `axios.es5.js` is the entry file generated for es mode after compilation, used in the `module` field of `package.json`. `axios.umd.js` is the entry file generated for `umd` mode after compilation, used in the `main` field of `package.json`.

## Automated Deployment

Since the `semantic-release` plugin is too much of a black box and a bit heavyweight, I decided to teach everyone to write the automated deployment script themselves. This is more flexible and more meaningful, because most scenarios don't need that many features.

### Modifying package.json

Before publishing to npm, you need to name your package. Since the name `ts-axios` is already taken, I used the name `ts-axios-new`. Of course, by the time you reach this point, you'll need to come up with a new name. You can use `npm view [<@scope>/]<pkg>[@<version>]` to search whether a package name already exists. For example, if you search `npm view ts-axios-new`, you'll find that this package already exists and it returns the related package information. If you search `npm view xxxx` and it returns error 404, then you can use the package name `xxxx`.

If you want the package you publish to be associated with your repository address, you can configure the `url` field of `repository`.

In addition, we add 2 npm scripts:

```json
{
  "prepub": "npm run test:prod && npm run build",
  "pub": "sh release.sh"
}
```

When we run `npm run pub`, the `prepub` script is executed first. In `prepub` we run the 2 scripts `test:prod` and `build`. The `&&` symbol means the following task is only executed after the preceding command succeeds.

`npm run test:prod` actually runs `npm run lint && npm run test -- --no-cache`. It first runs `lint` to check whether our source code and test files follow the `tslint` rules, then runs `test` to run the tests.

`npm run build` actually runs `tsc --module commonjs`, `rollup -c rollup.config.ts`, and `typedoc --out docs --target es6 --theme minimal --mode file src`. It first runs `tsc` to compile our `TypeScript` files; the files under `dist/lib` and `dist/types` are produced by this command. Then it runs `rollup` to build `axios.umd.js` and `axios.es.js`. Finally it runs `typedoc` to build the project documentation.

After running `prepub`, it then runs the `pub` command, which actually executes `sh release.sh`. But we don't have this script yet, so next we need to write the deployment script `release.sh`.

### Writing the Deployment Script

`release.sh`:

```bash
#!/usr/bin/env sh
set -e
echo "Enter release version: "
read VERSION
read -p "Releasing $VERSION - are you sure? (y/n)" -n 1 -r
echo  # (optional) move to a new line
if [[ $REPLY =~ ^[Yy]$ ]]
then
  echo "Releasing $VERSION ..."

  # commit
  git add -A
  git commit -m "[build] $VERSION"
  npm version $VERSION --message "[release] $VERSION"
  git push origin master

  # publish
  npm publish
fi
```

The deployment script is a shell script. A shell script simply wraps multiple lines of console commands, so let's go through them line by line to explain their meaning.

`#!/usr/bin/env sh` indicates that this is a shell script.

`set -e` tells the script to exit if the execution result is not true.

`echo "Enter release version: "` outputs `Enter release version:` to the console.

`read VERSION` reads a value from standard input and assigns it to the `$VERSION` variable.

`read -p "Releasing $VERSION - are you sure? (y/n)" -n 1 -r`, where `read -p` provides a prompt, followed by the prompt `Releasing $VERSION - are you sure? (y/n)`; `-n 1` means at most 1 character is accepted as valid input; `-r` disables backslash escaping. Because our `read` doesn't specify a variable name, by default this input value is assigned to the `$REPLY` variable.

`echo` outputting an empty value means jumping to a new line, and `#` denotes a comment in a shell script.

`if [[ $REPLY =~ ^[Yy]$ ]]` is a flow-control statement in the shell script. It checks whether `$REPLY` is `y` in either upper or lower case; if so, it proceeds to the following `then` logic.

`echo "Releasing $VERSION ..."` outputs `Releasing $VERSION ...` to the console.

`git add -A` stages all the code changes to the staging area.

`git commit -m "[build] $VERSION"` commits the code with the commit message `[build] $VERSION`.

`npm version $VERSION --message "[release] $VERSION"` changes the `version` field in `package.json` to `$VERSION` and commits a change record with the commit message `[release] $VERSION`.

`git push origin master` pushes the code to the main branch.

`npm publish` publishes the repository to `npm`. We will publish all the code under the `dist` directory to `npm`, because we configured `files` as `["dist"]` in `package.json`.

## Running the Deployment Script

Next we run the `npm run pub` script to deploy. We'll find that during the `npm run prepub` stage, when executing `tslint --project tsconfig.json -t codeFrame 'src/**/*.ts' 'test/**/*.ts'`, it failed because we have code that doesn't conform to the lint rules. It turns out that in the handling of the `promise` in the `processCancel` function in the `core/xhr.ts` file, we didn't handle the exception case, so we need to add the `catch` logic to it:

```typescript
function processCancel(): void {
  if (cancelToken) {
    cancelToken.promise
      .then(reason => {
        request.abort()
        reject(reason)
      })
      .catch(
        /* istanbul ignore next */
        () => {
        // do nothing
      })
  }
}
```

Since we won't reach the `catch` logic, we add a comment `/* istanbul ignore next */` to ignore the test coverage for that code branch.

Then we rerun the `npm run pub` logic. It first runs `test`, then runs `build` to compile the code, and finally executes the `release.sh` script. Once we enter the version to publish, it can complete the entire code publishing process.

This way of publishing with a single command via a deployment script can be used not only for this kind of JS library, but also in our everyday project development. It can greatly help improve our productivity and is also an indispensable part of frontend engineering. I hope everyone can learn and master it.

At this point we have completed the deployment and publishing of the project, and we can also see our published package on the `npm` official site. In the next lesson we'll create a real project to reference the `ts-axios` library we developed.
