---
title: Using the State Hook
date: 2021-04-06 19:13:06
permalink: /pages/82baa3/
categories:
  - React Notes
  - Hook
tags:
  - null
author:
  name: xugaoyi
  link: https://github.com/xugaoyi
---
# 02. Using the State Hook

```jsx
import React, { useState } from 'react';

function Example() {
  // Declare a new state variable called "count"
  const [count, setCount] = useState(0);

  return (
    <div>
      <p>You clicked {count} times</p>
      <button onClick={() => setCount(count + 1)}>
        Click me
      </button>
    </div>
  );
}
```

We'll start learning Hooks by comparing this code to an equivalent class example.



## Equivalent Class Component Example

```jsx
class Example extends React.Component {
  constructor(props) {
    super(props);
    this.state = {
      count: 0
    };
  }

  render() {
    return (
      <div>
        <p>You clicked {this.state.count} times</p>
        <button onClick={() => this.setState({ count: this.state.count + 1 })}>
          Click me
        </button>
      </div>
    );
  }
}
```

The state starts as `{ count: 0 }`, and we increment `state.count` when the user clicks a button by calling `this.setState()`. We'll use snippets from this class throughout the chapter.



### Hooks Don't Work Inside Classes

**Hooks don't work inside class components.** But you can use them instead of writing classes.





## What Does Calling `useState` Do?

It declares a "state variable". Our variable is called `count` but we could call it anything, like `banana`. This is a way to "preserve" some values between function calls -- `useState` is a new way to use the exact same capabilities that `this.state` provides in a class. **Normally, variables "disappear" when the function exits, but state variables are preserved by React.**



## What Arguments Does `useState` Accept?

The only argument to the `useState()` Hook is the **initial state**. Unlike classes, the state doesn't have to be an object. We can keep a number or a string if that's all we need. In our example, we just need a number for how many times the user clicked, so we pass `0` as the initial state. (If we wanted to store two different values in state, we would call `useState()` twice.)



## What Does `useState` Return?

It returns a pair of values: the current state and a function that updates it. This is why we write `const [count, setCount] = useState()`. This is similar to `this.state.count` and `this.setState` in a class, except you get them in a pair.





## Understanding useState

Now that we know what the `useState` Hook does, our example should make more sense:

```jsx
import React, { useState } from 'react';

function Example() {
  // Declare a new state variable called "count"  const [count, setCount] = useState(0);
```

We declare a state variable called `count`, and set it to `0`. **React will remember its current value between re-renders, and provide the most recent one to our function.** If we want to update the current `count`, we can call `setCount`.



> Note
>
> You might be wondering: why is `useState` not named `createState` instead?
>
> "Create" wouldn't be quite accurate because the state is only created the first time our component renders. During the next renders, `useState` gives us the current state. Otherwise it wouldn't be "state" at all! There's also a reason why Hook names *always* start with `use`. We'll learn about this in the [Rules of Hooks](https://zh-hans.reactjs.org/docs/hooks-rules.html).



## Using Multiple State Variables

Declaring state variables as a pair `[something, setSomething]` is handy because it lets us give *different* names to different state variables if we want to use more than one:

```jsx
function ExampleWithManyStates() {
  // Declare multiple state variables
  const [age, setAge] = useState(42);
  const [fruit, setFruit] = useState('banana');
  const [todos, setTodos] = useState([{ text: 'Learn Hooks' }]);
```

In the above component, we have `age`, `fruit`, and `todos` as local variables, and we can update them individually:

```jsx
  function handleOrangeClick() {
    // Similar to this.setState({ fruit: 'orange' })
    setFruit('orange');
  }
```

You **don't have to** use many state variables. **State variables can hold objects and arrays just fine, so you can still group related data together.** However, unlike `this.setState` in a class, **updating a state variable always *replaces* it instead of merging it.**

We provide more recommendations on splitting independent state variables [in the FAQ](https://zh-hans.reactjs.org/docs/hooks-faq.html#should-i-use-one-or-many-state-variables).



> Putting all state in a single `useState` call, or having a `useState` call for every individual field can both work. Components tend to be most readable when you find a balance between these two extremes, and group related state into a few independent state variables. If the state logic becomes complex, we recommend [managing it with a reducer](https://zh-hans.reactjs.org/docs/hooks-reference.html#usereducer) or a custom Hook.
