---
title: Rendering Elements
date: 2021-03-24 17:56:40
permalink: /pages/b5d372/
categories:
  - React Notes
  - Core Concepts
tags:
  - React
author:
  name: xugaoyi
  link: https://github.com/xugaoyi
---

# 02. Rendering Elements

Elements are the smallest building blocks of React apps. They describe what you want to see on the screen.

```js
const element = <h1>Hello, world</h1>;
```

Unlike browser DOM elements, **React elements are plain objects that are cheap to create**. React DOM takes care of updating the DOM to match the React elements.

## Rendering an Element into the DOM

Assume there is a `<div>` somewhere in your HTML file:

```html
<div id="root"></div>
```

This is the root node. A React application has only a single root DOM node.

> However, an HTML page can have multiple React applications, each corresponding to an independent root node.

```jsx
const el = <h1>Hello</h1>
ReactDOM.render(el, document.getElementById('root'))
```



## Updating the Rendered Element

React elements are [immutable](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Immutable_object). Once created, you cannot change its children or attributes. An element is like a single frame in a movie: it represents the UI at a certain point in time.

With our knowledge so far, the only way to update the UI is to create a new element and pass it to [`ReactDOM.render()`](https://zh-hans.reactjs.org/docs/react-dom.html#render).

Consider a ticking clock example:

```jsx
function tick() {
  // element is a React element
  const element = (
    <div>
      <h1>Hello, world!</h1>
      <h2>It is {new Date().toLocaleTimeString()}.</h2>
    </div>
  );
  ReactDOM.render(element, document.getElementById('root'));}

setInterval(tick, 1000);
```

Note: In practice, **most React apps only call [`ReactDOM.render()`](https://zh-hans.reactjs.org/docs/react-dom.html#render) once**. In the next section, we will learn how to encapsulate such code into **[stateful components](https://zh-hans.reactjs.org/docs/state-and-lifecycle.html)**.



## React Only Updates What's Necessary

In the previous example, even though we create a new element describing the entire UI tree on every tick, React DOM **only updates the content that has actually changed**.
